Kevin: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the Harvey season.
Kevin: My name is Kevin.
Liam: And my name is Liam.
Kevin: There we go.
Kevin: I was doing the motion.
Kevin: I know you can't see me, but I was I was I was motioning towards you.
Liam: I felt it.
Liam: I felt it
Kevin: And we are here today to talk about...
Kevin: Well, no, some cottage core game, mostly Guardians.
Liam: We are here to talk largely about a cottage core game.
Kevin: Largely.
Kevin: Maybe.
Liam: Maybe.
Kevin: Look, our ratios have been off lately.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Kevin: Some, some would say.
Kevin: So, uh, I mean, like Pokopia came out and that was, uh, how should I put a generational event for for our little show here?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, not just because the game is excellent, but we were also all big Pokemon fans that get, there's probably a big overlap in general between cottage corn, Pokemon fans, but anyways, um, so we, we,
Liam: What a what a game too.
Kevin: Well, I mean, you you played it?
Liam: I mean, like holy...
Liam: Oh yeah, absolutely.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: My wife and I were were hard obsessed with it for like 2 weeks. And then, interestingly enough, we both sort of hit the same point where we just dropped off hard and we were like, we should sell this while it's still worth a lot of money.
Liam: And then we did.
Liam: But, um, I played up to like the the 3rd area, which for me was the one with the boat, the SSN, and and, and I just like hit a hard wall and I was like, okay, I've had my, I've had my fill and my wife did the exact same thing in the other order.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: She did the SSN 2nd and then the mines 3rd and hit a wall.
Kevin: Oh, that, mm, okay, like I get it.
Kevin: Like, you go hard and then you hit why, I get it.
Kevin: Um, I wish you could have seen the ending or I don't know how much you've seen or heard or gathered, but.
Liam: Hmm.
Liam: Oh, I haven't seen the ending.
Liam: I know that like, I, what's the spoiler level that we're at on this podcast?
Kevin: Oh, I mean, okay, well, it depends on topic.
Liam: Is this for Pocopia?
Kevin: Yes, it's open range.
Kevin: We, we, we, on top to bottom of this.
Liam: Okay.
Liam: I have all I have seen as far as, like, spoilers go, is that the last area is, like, this broken up, like, floating islands place thing that seems rather neat, but, uh, and that you get like a magnamite power at the end that is, like, mad OP and lets you build pretty willy-nilly.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But otherwise, I don't actually know the ending or anything yet.
Liam: So maybe one day.
Liam: But, um, to be clear, our experience with the game where we cut ourselves off short was entirely a positive one because we were both like, it was starting to feel like a drag to play.
Kevin: Oh, well.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So I'm glad we ended where we did instead of trying to force our way through an extra 20 hours of of that.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Sure.
Liam: So.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: And that's an interesting one because, like, you can, like, be line it pretty dang quick.
Kevin: But it's so easy to get distracted because, you know, you want to, you're building up a little house, sure, make it a little nice and whatnot.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: But, um, but I will say like, I mean, you know, gameplay wise, like, yeah, there's probably a couple stuff.
Kevin: Um, but it's really the story, which is weird to say, because, I mean, Pokemon's writing's not stellar to begin with in general, but, or, um, and you know, this sort of crafting, if you unexpected.
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: But the story is is wild.
Kevin: Um, And and it's because it's also how it's told, a lot of it's like, you've already seen it, like the environmental storytelling, right?
Liam: Yeah, like the notes and stuff like that.
Kevin: Like just what's happened?
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's funny team rocket guy who wants me to bring him plants.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Oh man, it's, yeah, it's.
Liam: Yeah, the storytelling is very charming.
Liam: The narrative design, pretty pretty strong, honestly.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: Speaking of getting distracted, though, I may have veered us immediately off of your podcast format, so I'll be happy to
Kevin: No, that that's fine. Tangents are the podcast format, someone say.
Liam: You are right, you are right.
Liam: What is a podcast, a miserable pile of tangents?
Kevin: Damn, dude, you nailed the episode title too.
Kevin: Oh, that's A plus.
Kevin: Um, it really is.
Kevin: Um, I mean, we, we've been, uh, it's, it's been called to our attention, like I said, um, the, the whole reason I brought it up, because uh, we, like one of the few negative uh, comments we've received in a while was, was a guy who said, been talking too much about Pocopia, but, um, uh, but, like, I don't know what to tell you, but, like, it was, it was the clearest day when we've been talking about it all year, it was going to be a thing for us.
Kevin: Um anyways.
Liam: Man, it's tough to thread that needle, though.
Liam: Like, you know, because you're right.
Liam: It's uh, I mean, it's like, it's the the 911 for Cottage Core fans when Pokopia hit.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like it was, you know, really...
Liam: What was it?
Liam: You said world-defining, or, you, you, generational.
Kevin: Generational, so that's it.
Liam: That's that's much better than what I said.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, like, so it's hard to thread that needle when someone maybe is not into Pokopia, and all you want to talk about is the game that owns the space.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: That's, yeah, that's fair.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, oh, well.
Kevin: Oh, well, indeed, but, but hey, actually, this is the 1st episode of, I've been on since it came out where the Pokopia was not the focus.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Indeed.
Kevin: Um, but, but, uh, yeah, and yet here we are.
Liam: And yet.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um, anyways, um, uh, I'm gonna, anyways, so just final note, like, I, I would invite you to look up the, the story, like the final pieces, like, like, it's not even the actual plot.
Liam: Yep.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: The plot is fairly light, but the background information and what you, you, you piece it all together in the credit sequence.
Kevin: It's chef's gifts.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: Ooh, the credit sequence too, huh?
Kevin: Oh yeah, the credit sequence is, yeah, yeah, it's, it's one that tells a little something right up till the very end, one of those kinds of things.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: Man, maybe I should.
Liam: Maybe maybe I should try to just watch that with my wife tonight or something.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I would.
Liam: I'm really intrigued now.
Kevin: Yeah, because I don't know how much you know or what you learned, but there's some nonsense going on.
Kevin: I mean, as you can tell, because like you said, you saw the screwed up, um, shifted mountains and cities, but in half, um, like, it's, it's, yeah, there's some nonsense going on and figuring out why everything is like that.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Definitely.
Kevin: It's it's insane.
Kevin: Um, yeah, Omega Force.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Surprisingly good writers.
Kevin: Um, they did uh, the dragon...
Liam: They got they got people.
Kevin: Yeah, they do.
Kevin: They got the Dragon Quest Builders games.
Kevin: I don't know if you played either of those, but I played two.
Liam: Yeah, I played only the 1st one, but yeah.
Kevin: And that, that, Mm.
Kevin: Uh, oh, I I need to.
Kevin: I have not tried the 1st one.
Kevin: Um, I heard too was an improvement pretty much in every way, but, um,
Liam: That's my impression, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: But, uh, Yeah.
Liam: The cool thing about the 1st one is it's the best Dragon Quest builders you can play on the PlayStation Vita.
Kevin: No.
Kevin: Wait, they made it to the Vita?
Liam: That that I really enjoyed.
Kevin: I didn't realise it.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, it's on the Vita, the 1st one.
Liam: I don't I do not believe the 2nd one made it to Vita.
Liam: I should just like double check that.
Liam: But yeah, no, you got the switch version for that anyway.
Kevin: Ooh.
Liam: So, although I hear the Switch version of Builders 2 is shaky.
Kevin: It's served.
Liam: Oh, yeah, no Vita, serviceable, you'd say?
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, it's serviceable.
Kevin: I played it.
Kevin: I mean, I got a couple 100 hours on the switch, so yeah, you know, I, I,
Liam: Wow, nice.
Kevin: But I think I'm, I've been primarily a Nintendo guy in my life, so I do have more standard.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: So, you know, disclaimer.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, lower standards are just like, it doesn't bother you, right?
Kevin: Hmm. Yeah.
Liam: Like, I totally get you there, honestly.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I guess so.
Liam: Me, me playing Bayonetta 3 and not giving up about 60 FPS not being the, it's like, whatever.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Hmm. I don't I don't need to
Liam: I don't need to insult myself.
Liam: I can just admit that I'm just like enjoying it the way it is.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Look, I'm a sonic fan.
Kevin: I enjoy games with much bigger problems.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Look, here at the harvest season episode, whatever this is, we're Sonic fans.
Liam: We're on a different level.
Kevin: Oh my god.
Liam: I don't know what that means.
Kevin: Oh, the the viewers know what that means.
Kevin: The listeners, they know what that means.
Liam: Everyone drawing their own conclusion.
Kevin: Like, it's.
Kevin: Yeah, I, um, I mean, I'm I'm known as the Sonic fan for better and well, mostly for worse, but.
Kevin: One of, uh, so we do a sideshow on on the Patreon.
Kevin: It's called the greenhouse.
Kevin: It's it's like, uh, just just random topics.
Kevin: It's not cottage core nonsense.
Kevin: It's just whatever we feel like.
Kevin: Um, one of my favourite episodes was uh, one of our um, uh, one of our friends uh, hosts on here, uh, on now and then.
Liam: Sure, sure.
Kevin: His name is Johnny.
Kevin: Um, He's a, he's a pretty critical guy, let's say, um, him and I, we, we, uh, butt heads or, or different opinions and a lot of things.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: But we get along great.
Kevin: He's a great guy.
Kevin: Um, Anyways, so one day I just said, you know what, Johnny, I'm going to sit you down.
Kevin: I'm gonna introduce, he's never.
Kevin: I dont think he's ever played this on a game.
Kevin: And I said, I'm gonna throw down a list of sonic characters and you're gonna rate them.
Liam: Oh, fun.
Kevin: Yeah, that was good.
Liam: That'll be good.
Liam: That would be good.
Kevin: It was it was fun stuff.
Kevin: We started off very light.
Liam: You got you got to get him in there.
Kevin: I didn't get deep.
Kevin: I didn't get the deep cuts in, but, um, I mean, we got big the cat, and so that's all that matters.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: Big, big the cat's great.
Kevin: I do love big the cat.
Liam: It's like a real wake-up call if you haven't paid attention to Sonic designs in 27 years.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: It's like, ooh, ooh, what's this guy?
Liam: what's this guy's deal?
Liam: He looks so different.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: What I what I love about being the cat is like, he, you know, he was the butt of the joke and and the, almost emblematic of what people felt was wrong with the series, but they really turned him around. Like, I get so hyped to see big now.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Uh, did you play, uh, uh, was it, um, Sonic, not forces.
Kevin: Frontiers.
Kevin: you play?
Liam: Uh, Frontier?
Kevin: you play Frontiers?
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I played through Frontiers, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, how great was big in that?
Liam: It's cute.
Kevin: The little fishing hole with him is great.
Liam: It's cute when he shows up.
Kevin: I loved it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: I always like big a lot, even in adventure.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Because I feel like his his story is very sincere.
Liam: Like, even if, uh, even if maybe the the narrative around him is not the most well executed, there's like a real sincerity to his friendship with Froggy and stuff that I, that I can always, I can always get behind.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: There is.
Liam: Like, that game has such a strong emotional court.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: It does.
Kevin: I agree with that.
Liam: Love.
Kevin: Uh, maybe one day we'll get a good ream. One with uh, without blindingly shiny textures.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Did did you ever play, um, Sonic Dream Collect?
Kevin: No, but I watched you play it and that is...
Liam: Oh, okay, yeah, what a game.
Liam: What a time.
Kevin: That, oh.
Liam: That that big sequence is, uh, that also touched my heart in a different way.
Kevin: That.
Kevin: That, that, that was also a generational game.
Kevin: More so than generations.
Liam: Oh yeah.
Kevin: If you guys don't know what Sonic Dreams collection is, either go play it right now or, well, you know, after the episode or go look up a playthrough of it, because it's, uh, it's, I can't begin to describe it.
Liam: Yeah, for real.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: That's, uh, that's something very special.
Liam: It, it's a free fan game, so just, yeah, I highly encourage, I highly encourage it.
Kevin: Oh, good.
Kevin: There's a non-zero chance, though, reference it one day.
Kevin: There's a non-zero.
Liam: Oh yeah, there's a, there's a, they probably already accidentally made references to it, but, yeah, it's, uh, I mean, the, the, the pipeline of, like, sonic fans who want to officially work on sonic games.
Kevin: In fact.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: That's true.
Liam: You know, like, it's real, and we've seen that with like fan games becoming real games with like the murder of Sonic the Hedgehog.
Kevin: Yeah, that, oh, that was.
Liam: There's a there's a non-zero chance there is uh, already a reference to Dreams collection that I'm not aware of.
Kevin: Yeah very true.
Kevin: Um, those those comics run deep.
Liam: Yep.
Kevin: I know I'm not a comic guy, but I know they run deep.
Kevin: Oh, good times.
Kevin: Oh, like you said, a mess of tangents.
Kevin: I don't know how we got here. We're Sonic people.
Liam: That's how I go.
Kevin: That's how we got here.
Liam: It's how it go.
Kevin: All right, Liam.
Kevin: All right, okay.
Kevin: What have you been up to?
Kevin: Let's get to that.
Kevin: What have you been up to in recent times or whenever you can pretend like it's recent?
Kevin: I don't care.
Liam: I, uh, lately I had 2 things.
Liam: Uh, medical uh, intervention and being absolutely spoiled by video games on my Switch to.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: Um, so the the the first, the the less good thing is I had, uh, I like developed this, uh, everything's okay.
Liam: I don't have cancer, just to be clear.
Kevin: Okay.
Liam: But I like developed this condition in my lower gut that was really not good.
Liam: And the doctor, when they figured out what it was, which was pretty quick, they were like, you have to have a surgery ASAP.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: Uh, so I had to have the 1st invasive surgery of my life.
Kevin: Hmm.
Liam: Uh, it will be 3 weeks on Friday since then.
Liam: Uh, and it was like, it was scary.
Kevin: Okay.
Liam: Like, I'm a squeamish dude around, like, medical stuff, and it was scary.
Liam: I had to like trick my brain into like accepting that all I was going to the doctor's office for that day was for an IV.
Liam: They're just gonna put an IV in me and that's it.
Liam: And because I would be asleep for the rest of it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, I mean, effectively, that's kind of what it's like, or at least the one I experience.
Liam: So, um,
Liam: Yeah, and it was like that.
Liam: I mean, if for anyone who's ever had that sort of thing, those drugs really work, man, they really, they really get you.
Liam: Um, I had heard about that all my life but never experienced it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And then when it happened, she's like, you're going to feel some tingling in your arm, I'm like, oh, okay.
Liam: And I was asleep before, before I felt a single, a single thing.
Liam: Anyway, I had that and then I had a week and a half of recovery.
Liam: The recovery was perfect.
Liam: It was totally fine, but boy, it hurt.
Liam: Like they had to cut me open my abdominal region.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: Oh, so you have like scar, like big, big.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: um
Liam: Yeah, you got, I got, I got scar surgical wound, exactly.
Liam: And like, that sort of thing.
Liam: There's like some internal pain, some internal bruising from like where the thing was fixed, and then there's like the, the, uh, surgical incision where it's like on the abs, and like the distressing thing about that is, well, one of them is that like, it's hard to live your life without activating your abdominal muscles.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And so if you like sneeze, ouch, that hurts, that's bad.
Kevin: Oh, that's a bad one.
Kevin: Laughing.
Liam: Uh, yeah, my, like, like 2 days after uh, the surgery, I was talking to my wife about Dig Doug because that's what I do.
Kevin: Don't laugh too hard.
Liam: And at some point she addressed the main character as Doug, like D-O-U-G, which was not correct.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Yes, yes.
Liam: And it was one of those you just really had to be there kind of funny moments.
Liam: But she, she explained to me how she earnestly thought the guy's name was Dig Doug, D-O-U-G.
Liam: And having been at this, you just had to be there funny moment.
Liam: I was doubled over laughing.
Liam: I was in such pain. And she could see that I was in pain, but like a safe level.
Liam: So she kept playing into it and making it funnier.
Liam: Um, That's, uh, that's the kind of person I married.
Kevin: Oh, good on her.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: So, um, it was it was super funny.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: But anyway, recovery's been very good and I've, I'm like okay now.
Kevin: Well.
Liam: So, um,
Kevin: Well, that is wonderful to hear.
Kevin: Um, I, Boy, that put things into context.
Kevin: I feel like you just came out of surgery when I asked you about this episode.
Liam: Yeah, honestly, like, I think the timing probably was, like, right around that.
Kevin: Holy moly.
Kevin: Is that? You have nothing to better to do.
Kevin: I don't blame you.
Liam: Yeah, exactly.
Kevin: Oh my god.
Liam: Thankfully, thankfully now, like everything's pretty back to normal.
Kevin: All right.
Liam: Like I, the doctor's like, you still shouldn't do any heavy lifting and I'm like, oh, don't worry.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: You know, no, nothing to worry about there.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: But, um, yeah, uh, so, um, yeah, everything's pretty much good now.
Liam: That was a big thing in my life that happened recently.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: Uh, but more recently, like I, like I've said before, I have been just so spoiled by, like, games on the Switch 2 that I have been just over the moon to play.
Liam: Uh, I I was able to immediately find a copy of Indiana Jones in the Great Circle, uh, the, the Microsoft published one.
Liam: I found a used one, which is nice, because, you know, we should still probably not buy Microsoft stuff for a little while until they can, till they can, you know.
Kevin: Mm.
Liam: um
Kevin: I don't know what till when, to be honest, but I get you.
Liam: Boy.
Liam: Yeah, I know until when, right?
Kevin: until question marks.
Liam: I felt pretty lucky to find a used copy so soon after launch and like, boy, man, the graphics on this thing, I'm not going to harp on about them, but like playing a handheld game with graphics that look like that is like, is pretty, what is it people say?
Kevin: Uh.
Liam: We've come a long way since Pac-Man, you know, it's yeah, it's such an interesting game.
Liam: The puzzle solving is really fun too.
Liam: It's got it's got like nice real puzzles too, that are not just like you in a room with a square block in a square hole.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Um, so I think it's, I think it's a really neat adventure game that does a whole lot of things and does a whole lot of things, right?
Liam: Uh, I also played the other, uh, big one that I've been playing is Yoshi and the mysterious book, which I, have you, have you heard of this?
Kevin: Ooh.
Liam: Are you are you tuned into?
Kevin: I'm aware.
Kevin: I mean, I was aware of Indie too.
Liam: Okay.
Kevin: I'm played indie either, but I mean, like, I mean, obviously.
Kevin: So like, it's interesting how we have a whole Yoshi crafted sub genre now, but tell me about it.
Liam: You've seen this serious book finally jumps away from the crafted subgenre, so or like subseries, so no longer is Yoshi Yarn Yoshi, Yarn Yoshi has been deleted from existence at this point.
Liam: Basically, there's this mysterious book.
Liam: His name's Mr. E book, um, which is a fabulous name.
Liam: Um, and you can, he does, he does, and he appears, I believe, on Yoshi's Island, and all the Yoshi's are like, what's up with you?
Kevin: Like, gosh, she has a moustache.
Liam: Uh, and you can go to you go to all these levels within the book that have these critters, all these different creatures that uh, are that are in need of research.
Liam: And so it's a 2D platformer, but the way you progress the game is not through finishing stages through like dextrous platforming play, but you progress by investigating the creatures.
Liam: So you have to experiment with them and do things with them.
Kevin: Oh no.
Liam: A lot of the, there's basic stuff you can do to every creature, you know, jumping on them eating them, throwing eggs at them and so on.
Kevin: How long?
Kevin: I mean, I was going to say, how long hold them under what?
Kevin: Can you hold them underwater for, but networks too?
Liam: Oh yeah, yeah.
Liam: Right?
Liam: That sort of thing.
Liam: Um, but you, but you know, yeah, like that sort of thing.
Liam: Because, like, for example, like, there's this one creature who produces bubbles rapidly.
Liam: When you run around, they make more bubbles.
Liam: So like, okay, I threw him in the mud and now all of his bubbles are full of mud and they have like very different platforming properties.
Liam: I fed him a really spicy pepper and all of his bubbles explode now when they touch things, which you can use to do other things within the stage.
Liam: Sometimes you have the creatures meet up with each other.
Liam: Sometimes you mate the creatures.
Liam: Uh, there's like, there's all, there's like a lot of actually genuinely really creative stuff.
Liam: Um, and like to to reiterate, like your progress is based on how much you discover rather than platforming dexterity.
Liam: So the platforming is kind of a means to the end and that that end is studying.
Liam: studying critters.
Liam: And, like, it's really involved.
Liam: Like each critter, I feel like, has like 30 or more things to discover.
Liam: I don't think I've fully cleared a single one in the, like, in the 10 to 15 or so 10 to 12 or so that I've seen.
Liam: I'm hearing a lot of, oh, no.
Liam: Is this a, oh no, I have to try this game.
Kevin: You can't do this to me.
Kevin: Can't do this to me.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: I didn't know there was a perfect storm.
Liam: I hate to say it.
Liam: I hate to say it, but it's really good.
Kevin: Oh, for me.
Kevin: Okay.
Liam: Like, this is probably my favourite Yoshi game.
Liam: That's the end of that sentence.
Kevin: All right.
Kevin: Here's here.
Kevin: Here's here's the context.
Liam: Yeah, go ahead, go ahead.
Kevin: Liam.
Kevin: I mean, well, one, as established, I'm a big Pokemon fan, so, you know, the deck's billing collecting, that's obviously appealing, right?
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: creature collectors, you know, always catches my eye.
Kevin: But what you you don't know.
Kevin: I don't think I've ever
Kevin: discussed with you.
Kevin: Um, I don't want to say used to because technically we're on indefinite hiatus right now.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: I did a Mario podcast with a friend of mine.
Kevin: Um, so I am extremely well versed in Mario, um, lore and characters and nonsense.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Um, and so, like, I mean, I know Yoshi is kind of an offshoot and gets slightly different things, like we don't see Poocci running around in the Mario games, but, um,
Liam: Sure, but Yoshi's a Mario.
Kevin: Yoshi is Amar.
Liam: fundamentally, Yoshi Zamario.
Kevin: Yes, it's in the extended Mario universe, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: So, This is, this is checking all the right boxes and like this whole discovery angle.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Oh, that's that's my jam.
Kevin: That's, well, obviously it's so much more invigorating than, you know, just...
Kevin: selecting the same attack.
Kevin: And all these creative things you're talking about.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: It's it's really cool.
Liam: And like, you know, unlike platformer games like, say, uh, I don't know, like braid, where you see the gimmick and you're like, okay, that is a generational gimmick for platformers.
Liam: I would say this creature, um, studying thing is not it's not quite as powerful a gimmick, obviously.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like, you know, people aren't seeing it and running out to the shops to grab Yoshi in the same way that, you know, like a game like Braid Made Waves.
Liam: But the level of execution is so good.
Liam: That's what's really like killing it for me in this game.
Liam: they're just nailing it.
Liam: Maybe I'm mixing metaphors there saying they're killing it for me.
Liam: They're doing really good is what I mean.
Kevin: Sure.
Kevin: No, I mean, I get it.
Kevin: Killing is one of those, you know, good end.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: They're killing it.
Liam: That like, they're killing it means it's good.
Liam: They're killing it for me.
Liam: Does that mean it's good?
Liam: I don't know anyway.
Liam: Anyway, let me escape that sentence.
Liam: Uh, the, yeah, the level of execution is just is so brilliant.
Liam: Um, there's no uh, e-shop demo, but if you do have like a Walmart with a Switch 2 unit.
Liam: I know they have in-store demo for it.
Liam: So there is that if you need to give it a swing.
Liam: Um, man, what else about that game?
Liam: Uh, Baby Bowser and Kamek are in it or sorry, Bowser Jr. is that his name now?
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: That's correct.
Kevin: Yeah, I think so.
Liam: Um
Kevin: I mean, yeah, yeah, it is.
Kevin: As the as the semi-authority, yes.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Um, so, yeah, but, um, uh, overall, like just a really lovely time.
Kevin: I...
Liam: I don't quite know that I would call it a cottage core game, but it definitely feels a lot more relaxed and thoughtful than previous Yoshi games.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: You also can't die in this game, which plays in, it, well, plays into the whole, like, platforming is a means to an end rather than a test of skill in this game.
Kevin: That's big.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Uh, but I don't I don't really think it's an issue, honestly, because you can still permanently mess up a level and you have to restart the level, um, in some cases.
Kevin: Right.
Kevin: Ooh.
Liam: Like if you accidentally deplete a certain creature who lives in a level.
Liam: It's like, well, okay, I'm going to need to, I'm going to need to leave and come back.
Kevin: Oops, extinction.
Kevin: Like men extinction.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: those circumstances are pretty unusual, but they do exist.
Liam: So like, even if you can't die,
Liam: There are still sort of soft failure states.
Kevin: Okay.
Liam: Um, but yeah, it's it's fun.
Liam: As you progress, you meet different creatures, of course.
Liam: I haven't finished the game, but I think there's 30 stages slash 30 creatures.
Liam: And sometimes you'll get these extra little additions made to creatures pages where another creature can be invited into that page and they will have sort of joint interactions in some way.
Liam: Uh, so there's really like a level of, um, creative depth to each of the creatures that I admire. And, and you, you touched on something a little bit before where you, when you said it's not just, you likened it to Pokemon.
Liam: It's not just picking the same moves and just catching, you know, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I really feel like this is what I have been wanting from Pokemon for a long time, like a lower number, but a much higher level of much higher quantity of meaningful interaction with each creature.
Kevin: Yeah, absolutely.
Kevin: That, that, I mean, that's, well, it, sorry, didn't interrupt, but just like that's, that's probably one of Pokemon's biggest issues right now, right?
Liam: Um,
Liam: Go ahead, yeah.
Kevin: Like, they, they, they fail to, I've always said, like, the best thing about Pokemon is the Pokemon, which is very true, and but like, like you look at the 90s, the early days, right?
Liam: I think so.
Kevin: They had so many games with interacting them in so many ways, right?
Kevin: You had snap taking pictures, you have all these spinoff games and doing different things with them.
Kevin: Um, like Pocopia, that's one of the appealing parts, kind of, like, we're not battling.
Kevin: We just hanging out and building things for them and chatting, which is fun.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Sure, sure.
Kevin: So, uh, yeah, no, I get it, but oh, this, this is so exciting to see in in a Yoshi slash Mario.
Liam: Yeah, it's nice.
Liam: I think, uh, looking at the last 3 um, sort of mainline, quote unquote, Yoshi titles, uh, the ones all by by good feel.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So Woolly World on the Wii U and 3DS and uh, crafted world on the Switch.
Liam: I think this is the best of the 3 overall.
Kevin: Uh-huh.
Liam: But if you are like platforming, if you're like a platforming needs to be hard, I want to do platforming challenges, kind of guy.
Liam: Uh, this might not be your jam, uh, even if I think it's the strongest overall.
Liam: It's definitely more of an explorative game.
Liam: In some ways, and I don't want to overstate things, but in some ways, it reminds me of like immersive SIM gameplay, how you're like taking various elements in a level and like smushing them together to see what happens.
Liam: Um, so, yeah, um, I recorded an extended video with my friend the other day and we didn't, like, we had an idea what to expect, but we had so much more fun than I anticipated, really.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: And I've continued playing it fervently.
Liam: Um, and it has not.
Liam: The, the, the sheen has not worn off.
Liam: Like, even, like, uh, 4 hours in or whatever, which I know is not that long.
Liam: Like, you get through the levels pretty rapidly and you encounter a lot of creatures, but they all feel pretty fresh.
Liam: Like, they really did a great job varying them and stuff.
Liam: Anyway, I don't need to keep harping on with Yoshi, but it's they really did it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: I just got.
Kevin: No, I'm just going to say, bad job, Nintendo, they did, they're not marketing this because I, like, I forgot it came out and I didn't realise like this is what they're going about, but dang.
Liam: Yeah, I think they're Nintendo direct.
Liam: I mean, so like Nintendo Direct Marketing is like really good and like Nintendo probably has the best direct to consumer marketing, possibly of any company on the planet.
Kevin: Who?
Liam: I don't know.
Liam: Like Nintendo directs are really effective, but I don't, I don't disagree that the mysterious book trailers that Nintendo has put out feel very, I don't know, slow and not that interesting, uh, or at least I don't feel like they're really getting to the, like you can't just get up and be like, this doesn't look that interesting, but it's actually really well made.
Kevin: They are.
Liam: Like, you can't say that to the camera because, you know, it doesn't work.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So yeah, you're not wrong.
Liam: You're not wrong that like, this is exceeding my expectations.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So evidently my expectations that were set by Nintendo might have been in the wrong place, right?
Liam: Like, I think you're, I think you're on the money, but, uh, I highly encourage anyone who's interested to try to give it a swing.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I know there's an in-store demo in Japan.
Liam: I assume that in-store demo also exists at demo kiosks internationally, so maybe, but yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, I, I, I've been seeing a lot of those, uh, those kiosk popping up lately, like in Targets and Walmart's like functional now.
Kevin: Like, I don't know if Nintendo's trying to push them out.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Probably because it's...
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: But yeah, yeah, no, um, I'm, I'm probably, yeah, just to be honest, I can do an encyclopedia page on a squeak.
Kevin: Oh, that's that's the, that's my fan game.
Liam: Yeah, basically.
Liam: Yeah, oh yeah.
Kevin: I mean...
Liam: The, it, it, it, it's cute too, because like as much as a couple, there are like a couple Yoshi uh, mainstays.
Liam: Most of them are like original new critters for this game or like variants on ones you've seen.
Kevin: Yeah, I don't know that snail guy.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm...
Liam: No, yeah, I don't know.
Kevin: Yeah, I don't know.
Liam: a snail guy either.
Liam: There's also one that looks like a fake Kirby.
Kevin: Yeah, the fake Kirby, yeah.
Liam: Uh, and the, yeah, um,
Kevin: Yeah, that's interesting.
Kevin: Um, yeah, that's very fun.
Liam: Fake Kirby does not work how you think it works.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's cute though.
Liam: Um, so, yeah, anyway.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm sure they they lean into that, but like, they they set your expectations.
Kevin: But anyways, um, good stuff.
Kevin: Yoshi and them mysterious book.
Kevin: Wow, the underdog story of the year.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Good, good stuff.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: I hope so.
Liam: I hope it gets the acclaim that I think it deserves.
Liam: At very least, the reviews, I think, were very good, honestly.
Liam: Uh, I think it, I think it got like an 80 something metacritic, which is, which is very salt, like Yoshi does not normally punch that high.
Kevin: No.
Liam: It currently has an 80 on Metacritic, uh, a solid handful of which are 9s and 10s, which is like, okay, this is this is really resonating with some.
Kevin: That's.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: I don't know, it seems like more than 10% of the...
Kevin: Dying.
Liam: Good sign, I think.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Way more than 10%.
Liam: Sorry, I'm scrolling and it's 9s for a while.
Liam: Anyway.
Liam: I'm rambling, but, uh, yeah, good stuff, what, what, hmm?
Kevin: That's fine.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Zick?
Kevin: What, uh, Anything else on your end?
Liam: You know, lots of little things, but I think I think I can leave it at that.
Liam: I think those have been the main things.
Liam: You know, Yoshi and invasive stomach surgery about equally take up space in my mind right now.
Kevin: Sure.
Liam: So, um, what have what have you been up to in the past little while?
Kevin: They tread similar grounds if you think about it.
Liam: They do.
Kevin: Oh, man.
Liam: They do, yeah.
Kevin: Um, so, um, as people know, I've been playing my favourite game, which is worth working too much.
Kevin: Um, so my, my, my gaming and uh,
Liam: Oh yeah, working too much.
Kevin: But, uh, I mean, I squeak out Pocopia when I can, we talked about that.
Kevin: I have to go into detail.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Oh, okay.
Kevin: 11 thing.
Kevin: I will mention, like, just to pitch to you, like we talked about in detail already, but are you familiar with the Cloud Island feature?
Liam: Oh yeah, the, um, yeah, like the the palette town kind of space kind of thing.
Kevin: So, it's, it's 2 things.
Kevin: Well, one, it is kind of Palatine, where it's like the blank slate.
Liam: Oh, sorry, Cloud Island, right.
Kevin: Yes.
Liam: That's the little, the little, um, right, right, sorry, that's the separate thing.
Kevin: Yes, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: I, I, it's easy to mix because the idea is kind of the same to begin.
Liam: Okay, I am actually.
Kevin: Um, where it's kind of like the blank slate sandbox mode or whatever, right?
Kevin: Um, so Flat Island is online, right?
Liam: Right.
Kevin: Let, just, when you start it, and I've been, I've talked about, it's like I'm the ghost, people know, but it's asynchronous.
Kevin: You can open up your cloud island and send people your code and people can come hang out and do whatever they want whenever.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: And so like me and my friend Mark, we just have the Cloud Island and like this is why I'm playing it or a big part.
Kevin: why I'm playing it so much, like it's just kind of the hangout spot for us now because we...
Kevin: I frequently.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Um, so like it's just so satisfying that we don't have to sync up at a certain time and worry about connectivity or whatever.
Kevin: Like we just hop on, do stuff and just chat about how we're building up a town, building a little beach market or what have you.
Kevin: It's so much fun.
Kevin: Um, yeah.
Liam: That is fun.
Liam: I have a question about that.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So the asynchronous, I get, if you're both online at the same time, are you also playing together, or is it purely asynchronous?
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: You, no, you are going together.
Liam: Oh, cool.
Liam: Both.
Kevin: Yes, um, you're going to have up to 4 people on the island at once.
Kevin: Um, uh, so, you know, you want to get a party going, you can.
Kevin: Um, But you, you can, and and there's no limit to, as far as I know, to who can actually visit.
Kevin: So, like, uh, like they have what called the developer island, that's a cloud island and, you know, everyone goes there because they handed out the code.
Liam: Mm, just...
Kevin: But, um, if I, if I, you know, I throw my code, and I have throw my cone out into the ether, everyone can come visit and see whenever, um, it's just like a population limit, um, of a 4 at Max.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Um, but you, you, you can play together.
Liam: Oh, I see.
Liam: Okay.
Liam: That's that's dope.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, yeah, it's, it's good stuff.
Liam: Apparently, IKEA distributed a Cloud Island.
Kevin: Yeah, IKEA Island.
Liam: I'm looking online.
Kevin: I've been to it, but sadly, they did not introduce IKEA furniture into the game, but they just the vibes, the IKEA vibes.
Liam: Amazing, incredible.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um, but...
Liam: So this Cloud Island thing seems interesting.
Liam: So is that your main, uh, I, you know, I take it
Liam: you finished the game.
Liam: Is that your main occupation in Pocopia now is like plugging away at Cloud Island?
Kevin: Right.
Kevin: Right now, like, it depends if I'm on, not basically, um, right, because sometimes I'll, like, I'll be on a lunch break or whatever, and sometimes, uh, like, even in the single player mode, like, the appeal of fixing up things, which, you know, you've already seen plenty of, like, fixing up the SSN or just these ruined structures, like that, takes a lot of effort, but I guess.
Liam: Right, right, right.
Kevin: Um, I work.
Kevin: kind of 5050 between Cloud Island, just building up.
Kevin: Tidying up and re, yeah, re, uh, restore.
Kevin: Um, I also like, there's still the Polkadix.
Kevin: I have, I'm on like 200, I think, out of the 300, like that's technically a thing I can do.
Kevin: Our friend, Al, has actually done the pok, uh, the pokodex.
Kevin: Um, so it was a good one to him, but, uh.
Liam: That's a whole thing yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, but uh, but yeah, Pocopia, I never thought I'd have a game become my personality, but but here I am sadly.
Kevin: I say that, but again, Sonic fan, so you know.
Kevin: Um, But, uh, yeah.
Kevin: Okay, aside from Pocopia.
Kevin: Um, I've, uh, man, I managed to dip my toes into other games, uh, specifically back into good old, uh, Zenla Zone Zero.
Kevin: Um, Uh, I think, if I recall, you're familiar with it.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: You played it, I think, at the beginning a little.
Liam: I played it for almost a year to the day.
Kevin: Oh, that's what it was, yeah.
Liam: Uh, because I stopped like right before the uh, the 1st year anniversary, and my, my friend was like, why would you stop now?
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Season 2 stuff.
Liam: There's all the free handouts and stuff.
Kevin: There any of the drugs?
Liam: Um, but, uh, my, yeah, exactly.
Liam: Yeah, 1st hits free, 2nd hits free.
Liam: Um, but, uh, my wife and I were spending like, you know, 30 plus minutes a day doing our dailies.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And after like a year of doing that, I think both of us were like, we are like, we should take this time back from Zenla Zones zero.
Kevin: Yeah, nope, that's.
Liam: And I know we could just not do the dailies and we'd still be okay.
Liam: But I mean, the game's designed to make you want to do them, man.
Kevin: It's a god game.
Liam: It's, yeah.
Kevin: Just the nature of the beast.
Kevin: So I get it.
Kevin: I don't blame you one bit.
Kevin: And like, I'll say, your one was phenomenal.
Kevin: Like, I think year one was pretty solid top to bottom.
Kevin: Um, generally speaking.
Kevin: Um, like they're the character that came out in the scenarios or whatever.
Kevin: Like, you know, it's not a terribly deep game, all things considered, but I had fun with all everything they gave out.
Kevin: Um, Mm-hmm.
Liam: Yeah, the high points were high at very least.
Liam: I strongly agree with that.
Liam: There's some stuff I didn't like, but by and large, very enjoyable.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, anyways, so, okay, so, okay, so you are familiar.
Kevin: Um, I, this is important context because, um, but yeah, we got season three, year 3 coming up and and that's, I'm a little lukewarm on it.
Liam: Hmm.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: Um, but it's whatever, but right now, what's happening, it, it, it, I came back for this.
Kevin: Um, I dropped it for a minute, um, but, so, Billy, you remember Billy, Red Jacket, robot man?
Liam: Yes.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um, he got an S rank variant because he's like the one of the free units, um, they they give you.
Kevin: He got a less rank.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: The the Starlight Billy, right?
Kevin: Yes, have you seen it?
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I have I have seen it.
Kevin: Okay, sure, you already.
Liam: I am I am somewhat up to date on the news anyway, if not the contents in detail.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Yes, okay.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Okay, but, um, yeah, I mean, it's pretty, like, I'm a sucker for the the senti tropes and and the the biker jacket and and he, have you seen his ultimate?
Liam: Pretty cool.
Kevin: He does uh, like uh, a motorcycle, like uh, kind of like a donut on the enemy, the motorcycle explodes, and then he follows up with a form perfect uh, centre.
Liam: Oh, not yet.
Liam: Cool.
Kevin: Just, just over the top, you know, what Zenless is good at being over the top and fashionable.
Kevin: So that had me excited, so I'm back in for Billy and he actually came out just today.
Kevin: I already played with him.
Liam: Yeah, the sample, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, but so I'll pull for him, but, um, you know, I'm, it's, by the same note of like, yeah, you can play these games without, or you lose time just, just kind of mindlessly playing through the dailies.
Kevin: Like sometimes that's what I want.
Kevin: So, you know, that that's...
Kevin: than it is.
Liam: Yeah, I think that's I think that's totally reasonable, honestly.
Liam: Like, I, I, I get people just wanting to sit and be comfortable with a game that brings them comfort, like, totally.
Liam: For me and my wife, it was just like,
Liam: we're both doing it.
Liam: Like, and we're using the PS5, so like only one of us can do it at a time.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: So we're like waiting for the other person to finish their dailies.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: God forbid there's an event on now.
Liam: of, you know, my,
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh my gosh, yeah.
Kevin: Ooh, I didn't think about that.
Kevin: That would be rough to share.
Kevin: yeah.
Liam: It was it was not ideal. and and like, I, you know, there's things I like.
Liam: You know, I really enjoy the combat. I think it's very fun in Zenla zone zero.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: and like, you know, Mijoyo has a hell of an art team, you know, and they're, they, they deliver, but like, man, I have complaints through all their games about the, uh, narrative design and the writing, and specifically just how overwrought and how lengthy scenes can be for not great feeling reasons.
Kevin: Oh, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, they will wear your X button out is kind of my feeling.
Kevin: They added the auto or even skip.
Liam: Yeah, that, you know, you could skip, but that doesn't feel right, right?
Kevin: You know?
Liam: In like a story sequence.
Kevin: They, no, no, that's fine.
Liam: Anyway, I'm sorry.
Liam: I'm cutting off your, you're enjoying Zenless with my not...
Kevin: I mean, yeah, no, no.
Kevin: I mean, these were very valid complaints.
Kevin: I'll give them a small thumbs up because if you skip, they'll give you a summary of the main points that you're skipping.
Liam: Hmm.
Liam: That's, you know, you're not wrong.
Liam: That is something.
Kevin: But, um, but yeah, no, I mean, like, yeah, like you said, the combat's good.
Kevin: The art's good.
Kevin: I, I talked about this last time, but one of the uh, complaints or, or like I said, there's season 3 is coming out.
Kevin: Uh, it does feel a little weaker in terms of character design.
Kevin: Um, It feels, for lack of a better way, putting it, very Mahoyo.
Kevin: Um, it feels like they're starting to go to some of their other standard tropes and their other games or their designs.
Kevin: Um, because I don't know, Zenless felt very fresh, right?
Kevin: We had robots, we had a anthropomorphic bear and a werewolf butler, you know, all sorts of different characters and flavours.
Kevin: Um, But, uh,
Liam: I think they were like a cool collection of like archetype groups, definitely.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: The maids, the bikers, the, you know, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, and now like, well, it's stuff they're showing.
Kevin: Yeah, it's, you know, nothing's really like typing me up.
Kevin: So, you know, we'll see what.
Kevin: But, uh, it is here at least right now.
Kevin: But, um, anyways, but, uh, yeah, like I said, overall, not not a lot going on.
Kevin: Well, I say that, but with the, the, all, you know, all the asterisk, that, Guardians of Asthma, the thing we actually came to talk about.
Kevin: I tried putting in a little time in that.
Liam: I guess yeah.
Kevin: Um, so let's, let's, let's pivot to that.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, ruin factory.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: So, uh, it is... I can't, I think Ruin Factory, like as big as a series and like, you know, cornerstone it is.
Kevin: Um, we don't actually cover them.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, part of it is the length, right?
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: Because all these are going to be heavy investments time wise.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: I think I think your the podcast's release timing as well.
Liam: I think the only ones that have come out are Guardians of Asthma and Five, and maybe maybe the deluxe version of four, maybe.
Kevin: Yeah, that too.
Kevin: Yes.
Liam: So like, really the tail end of the series.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: What's some, what's your personal rune factory history?
Liam: I think you might have mentioned something on Discord, but I, uh...
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: So that's the...
Kevin: That's the uh, that's also the kicker.
Kevin: This is my 1st one
Kevin: Always wanted to, just never hopped on the boat.
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Sure, sure.
Kevin: But yeah, this is this is my personal one.
Kevin: What about you?
Kevin: What's your room factory?
Liam: My room factory history is is most of them.
Kevin: Hmm.
Liam: Uh, so, so back then, uh, Natsume was doing some interesting stuff, and in, uh, 2006, 7, they released 2 interesting Harvest Moon games.
Liam: They released, uh, uh, Rune Factory, A Fantasy Harvest Moon.
Liam: That's the actual subtitle, and they released Innocent Life, a Futuristic Harvest Moon on the PSP.
Kevin: Yeah, I remember.
Kevin: What?
Kevin: I don't remember that.
Liam: Yeah, which is kind of, yeah, it's kind of like a sister game.
Liam: It's by a different developer.
Kevin: Ah.
Liam: It's a very different game.
Liam: Maybe not as good, but similarly interesting.
Liam: They put out a fantasy and a future harvest moon at the same time.
Liam: Only the fantasy one would end up surviving.
Kevin: Yeah, I can notice.
Liam: But yeah, I pretty much played them all as they came out.
Liam: And like if you've played a Harvest Moon game, you're basically getting a Harvest Moon game of that 2000s period with a certain amount of like RPG combat and like light dungeonering added to it.
Liam: Uh, so, yeah, I mean, it's a pretty straightforward blend to imagine.
Liam: And like nowadays in in the, uh, in the current era of cottage core post, uh, uh, post valley games, exactly.
Liam: Post-Stardew games, it's easy to imagine what a comparable game.
Liam: looks like.
Liam: Um, 3 is probably the, the, for me, the high point of the series.
Liam: A lot of people feel for is the high point of the series, and I think that's totally reasonable as well.
Liam: Um, but then after 4 on 3DS, the the studio Neverland, they made, they made one more game that was not a run factory title.
Liam: And the studio, unfortunately, shut down completely.
Liam: And, like, that was it.
Liam: That was that was the, uh, the end.
Liam: And then very suddenly in a Nintendo direct, uh, yeah, uh, Room Factory 5 was announced out of nowhere with uh, some of the leadership from Neverland and um, and then they also did uh, Room Factory 4 special.
Liam: which is an amazing port forsted.
Liam: Uh, Room Factory 5, I don't know how up on that one you are, but like coming hot off the heels of hot off the heels.
Liam: Many years later than arguably the best 2 in the series, 3 and four, like expectations were high, and I think it's very fair to say expectations were largely not met.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Oof.
Liam: Uh, it's Rune Factory 5 in a lot of ways looks like a rune factory and and like it acts like a rune factory, but it is just not as good.
Liam: It is not as concise.
Liam: It is not as well thought out.
Liam: They had to build back up from zero.
Liam: They were building a new team.
Liam: They also had to build new tools because it switched to like a full 3D to being a full 3D game, uh, as opposed to,
Liam: thing they had.
Liam: So, you know, they had a lot of disadvantages, but unfortunately, they weren't totally able to deliver, which kind of put the whole series, you know, back in, like, question, like, is this, is room factory just going back to being dead?
Liam: And, and thankfully, I'm very glad about this, but, uh, no, uh, Roon Factory, did not diver in factory.
Liam: They immediately went and they started working.
Liam: factory, Guardians of Azm, you'll notice, does not have a 6 attached to it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Plain it safe.
Liam: And they were very,
Liam: Yeah, they they were
Liam: they've been very clear that this is like kind of like a spinoff game, kind of like dipping their toe here and like they don't want to like upset people too much by changing things.
Liam: So this game is...
Kevin: Doing the uh, the Capcom naming thing, you know, it's Monster Hunter Wilds.
Liam: A little.
Kevin: Maybe it is the next one.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Maybe maybe it's the next one.
Liam: I don't know.
Liam: Do you guys like it?
Liam: Then, yeah, I guess it is.
Liam: No, I don't know.
Liam: Um, this is the this is like the 3rd game in the series that doesn't have a number.
Liam: There was a Wii game and a PS3 Wii game before.
Liam: Uh, so, you know, not the 1st time this series has had a spinoff that is basically just as much a full game as the others, but, um, the, I, I think probably the big difference with Roon Factory Guardians of Azema is like it introduces this whole sort of light, open world, open zones kind of gameplay thing and also is more combat focussed.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Boy, is it?
Kevin: Boy, is it?
Liam: I don't, I, yeah.
Liam: Uh, I don't think more combat focus is to its detriment from, like, from a design perspective, but I do think the combat doesn't necessarily deliver on all fronts either.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh, true.
Kevin: Yeah, I say, but.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: So, so, uh, so what did you get to play?
Liam: You picked it up for the 1st time on Switch on PC.
Kevin: Yoga.
Kevin: Yes.
Kevin: Uh, okay, so well, actually, okay, 1st off, small disclaimer.
Kevin: I did some diggings through the archives here.
Kevin: Rune factory 4 S was covered by the show back in 2020 early on.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Damn, okay, it did happen.
Kevin: And Rune Factory, 5 was covered by Alan Micah in 2022.
Kevin: So back in the day, I assume closer when it came out, it's just been a while.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: So wow, I didn't realise it's been that long.
Kevin: Um, And the special bonus, the one I was on, I forgot about. We did an episode talking about the pixel cross rune factory game.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: The the puzzles.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Yeah.
Liam: I mean, hardly even.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I get you.
Kevin: Yeah, no, I know, like, obviously, it was surprisingly good, actually.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Like, you know, I play because it's pick Ross and I love pick Ross, but, um, they did all right things, actually, intriguing things, um, with equipment and and music.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Anyways, um, so yeah.
Kevin: Um, so, but also, um, yeah, so, uh, obviously I've played Harvest Moon, story seasons, all that.
Kevin: But the Ruin Factory series, I always wanted to never dip my toes in.
Kevin: Um, and yeah, this is my 1st one.
Kevin: I got, I've been playing on the Switch 2.
Kevin: Um, I am, I'm not terribly far in again, a lot of work this past month.
Kevin: Um, we are, I didn't check the hour count, but I'm, I'd clear the summer village for reference, which is not very far.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Great.
Kevin: How far are you?
Kevin: It's good a frame reference.
Kevin: I'm okay.
Liam: I'm, I'm,
Kevin: Yeah, I guess just spoilers disclaimer.
Kevin: Um, I don't, we haven't beat the game.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: I'm okay with whatever you want to talk about.
Kevin: I'm not up and I guess up to where we are.
Kevin: Well, you know, I'll just say it's open season.
Kevin: ahead.
Liam: Yeah, so, uh, yeah, I'm I'm in the winter village.
Liam: For context, the summer village is the 2nd one and the winter village is the 4th one.
Liam: Um, and it's my understanding that those are the 4 towns in the game and there are no more towns in the game.
Liam: We could be totally wrong, but I believe that's the case.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And from there, the story is supposed to develop around there.
Liam: But I think we do have a comfortable, uh, backing to at least talk about.
Kevin: I have wet my beak, I would say.
Liam: Even if we are both nowhere near the staggering 50 plus hour playtime estimate on how long to beat, which I was like, whoa, 50 hours, that's crazy for this game.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But anyway.
Kevin: I was very puzzled.
Kevin: You mentioned that to me and like I got to the Spring village and I was like, well, that went pretty fast and, you know, assuming winter, we go to winter.
Kevin: It didn't feel like 50 hours and then I saw the chapter list and I was like, oh, okay.
Kevin: Never mind.
Kevin: There's the 50 hours.
Liam: Yeah, no, exactly.
Liam: There's there's a lot of stuff that I I gotta say for a game that seems to have such an extended playtime.
Liam: And indeed, this would make it the longest one in the series, I think, tied with, tied with, like, four or five.
Liam: Um, uh, so I guess I shouldn't say the longest one in the series, but anyway.
Liam: Uh, uh, the story is awfully breezy for a game that seems to have such a long story play time, eh?
Liam: Like it goes by pretty quick that you get to do lots of stuff.
Liam: There's lots of characters to me.
Liam: Like, it's fun and it's it's like very light and easy to play through.
Liam: Um, not too much or almost anything in the way of time pressure either.
Liam: Uh, I definitely accidentally left a main goal to tick over to the next day and not a big deal.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Just come see us the next day, no problem.
Liam: I don't know if there are.
Liam: I don't know if there are time limits at any point or anything like that, frankly.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, this is what's interesting to me. Again, like not fully knowing the expectations of of Rune Factory, like, again, I know obviously they're more combat focussed and what seems to be more RPG leaning, you know, in terms of all the tropes.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: not, right?
Kevin: Um, you know, as opposed to the harvest moon, the roots, which is very much more sandboxy, right?
Kevin: You get your character interactions, but there's little to no actual plot.
Kevin: You know, I start up ruin factory.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: I get the whole little, uh, opening cut scenes, all cinematic, and so I'm like, okay, I'm, I'm prepping my mentally, you know, I'm probably going to get something of a story.
Kevin: Um, and, you know, which there is, but it feels at least so far again, very early in, so this is very premature judgement, like, I don't know.
Kevin: I was expecting a little more.
Kevin: terribly deep, or maybe just because it's going over, what feels kind of just very,
Kevin: Generic, or not generic, like, like very tropey sort of uh, Story beats, right?
Liam: Yep.
Kevin: village with the deity that's disappeared.
Kevin: Let's restore the land.
Kevin: And so you, you know, that, that's fine and dandy, but like, is, is that it?
Kevin: I just, you know, trying to look at looking around.
Liam: Yeah, I no, I agree.
Kevin: .
Liam: Being that I'm still within the, uh, period of the game that's that's like help the villages out.
Liam: I agree. So far, the like village plots have been like pretty pretty straightforward, go here, do that.
Liam: Yeah, help the village find its deity.
Liam: Um, I think one thing that has been helping me along, is there are areas of the gameplay that I like quite enjoy? Um, I know I know a lot of people kind of shirk away from the idea of like X series incorporating open world elements and stuff.
Liam: But I gotta say the days in guardians of asthma where I choose to like go out into the open zone and just kind of like empty it and like do my best to finish it all.
Liam: It's like a pretty fun little action adventure game stapled to the side of my Harvest Moon game.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, it's it's it's definitely a lot more elaborate than the other games in that regard.
Liam: Uh, and the the setting, this is kind of a separate thought.
Liam: But it feels a lot more grand than the other ones too.
Liam: The other ones all feel like they're at the scope of like Harvest Moon.
Liam: Like you got your grandpa's farm and, you know, they all kind of feel...
Kevin: Sure.
Kevin: It's all on the one map.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Kind of, yeah, usually they'll have dungeons and and fields to go out into, but it'll be like, you know, one area that branches into a couple spots.
Liam: Guardians of Asthma with this whole, like, you know, getting to fly everywhere and all the islands in the sky.
Liam: Is the execution perfect on that?
Liam: No, this is not Tears of the Kingdom.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Right.
Liam: But like, it does manage to like carve out this, um, this much grander feeling than the other ones that I, that I am.
Liam: I am kind of enamoured with like them trying to like punch a little higher with the setting and like the feel of the world and the scope of things.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, It is, is neat. And it, I, I don't disagree with your assessment that it's like pretty simplistic, but...
Kevin: Yeah, like, it's weird now that I think about it because because you're right, in the context of, you know, ruin factories and and cottage core games, right, kind of being the flagship titles.
Kevin: Um, this is pretty grand, right?
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Like the open areas aren't bad by any means.
Kevin: Like, you know, again, certainly no Tears of the Kingdom, but maybe, like, I think it was so grand or or, you know, well done to whatever degree, like, I just started judging it against, yeah, Tears of the Kingdom and other open world games, like, which is maybe somewhat of an unfair comparison because, uh, you know, where they're coming from and what they're trying to do, but, um, but yeah, no, like, you're right.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: I do think the open world feels big enough, better, better than Skirly and violent Pokemon.
Kevin: Um, which is not saying a lot, but, um, but, uh,
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: It's certainly smaller than those ones, but better executed anyway.
Kevin: Yeah, well, at least that, yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, I'm, I'm, yeah, I'm engaged.
Kevin: You're right.
Kevin: when you go out, like, when you go out into the field area, like, there's, there's, there's a lot, lots of little markers to see and do, and it feels designed well enough that it catches my interest.
Kevin: Um, and again, that's only being on, you know, 2 of the 4 villages and who knows what else?
Kevin: You know, I don't know how big this game gets.
Kevin: But so far, um, uh, yeah, no, I, I like, it's, it's doing a serviceable job at least, um, trying to do this open world action type game on the side.
Liam: Yeah, I'm curious as well.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, Yeah.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: I'm really curious to hear your thoughts, though, where you said you felt like you were comparing it to Tears of the Kingdom and stuff in your head.
Liam: I don't think that's unfair at all.
Liam: Like, I think they're trying to play in that space in terms of design.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And so I think like it's supernatural.
Liam: So what was your, I guess there was underwhelming stuff, if I'm reading, if I'm reading you, right?
Kevin: Yeah, I mean, it's, But, like, how should I put this?
Kevin: You can feel the very...
Kevin: Losing the word, whatever.
Kevin: The zones, like you can, you feel you feel the hard walls of the zones very like quickly or easily, right?
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Like, you know, once you reach the boss of, of, using the 1st island village for, as an example, once you reach that boss, you've kind of seen the whole map, right?
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: You haven't explored every nook and cranny and.
Kevin: Um, things to find, but, Yeah, you kind of seen it, right?
Liam: More or less, yeah.
Kevin: And so, you know, like they're handing giving it to you kind of piecemeal, which, you know, is not inherently a bad approach, but, you know, it's it's like, yeah, but when you start adding it together, again, I'm just speaking from 2 islands in, like, I think it starts to build up.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: But, um, yeah, like, and yeah, I mean, well, you know what?
Kevin: Here's the real problem, I think, more than that, like, your options are limited.
Kevin: Um, because you, you've got combat pretty much, right?
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: There's no traversal options, um, as far as I know or that I've experienced, but um,
Liam: I think I think the only traversal thing is like you can run and you can mantle on stuff when you jump and it's a little too high.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like, I think that's it.
Liam: I really appreciate that it's got mentaling because that definitely helps when you're trying to climb awkward rocks that you might not be supposed to climb.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, it is pretty good about that.
Liam: But yeah, you're right.
Liam: There's like not much going on there.
Liam: yeah.
Liam: Totally.
Kevin: Yeah, but, um, and I guess, well, I mean, guess this kind of just literally, they're naturally leads into the combat, because that's what you're going to be doing out there.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: Well, let's talk about combat.
Kevin: Um, I, yeah, I, I, um.
Liam: quite a bit of it.
Kevin: Boy, uh, the the scales, the spectrum's very wide when talking about combat, right?
Kevin: Um, and yeah, it's okay.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Like, it's it's not awful.
Kevin: There's even in the cottage core space, which, you know, combat is stapled on at best sometimes.
Kevin: Um, but we also have sock and rice and ruin in this space.
Kevin: So, you know, the we can go very high too.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, it's it's okay.
Kevin: Like, the actions, well, I say that maybe as you get farther in because there's there's skill trees, right?
Kevin: You unlock an equipment upgrades, all that stuff, and, and you start unlocking different sets of moves, but it's, it's not very, it's not super dynamic, I guess, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: It's mostly just running around trying to hit an enemy from a certain angle, maybe, and just pressing the buttons, just smashing.
Kevin: It's not terribly deep execution in my opinion, or at least the weapons I've tried.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: No, I totally agree.
Liam: Yeah, you do get you do get some more weapons.
Liam: You might have gotten the talisman now in the Summer Village.
Kevin: I did.
Kevin: That was a little, that was interesting.
Liam: That was kind of a neat one.
Liam: I like, I like the homing shots, but like, yeah, I, uh, yeah, the, um, upgrade tree, like, yeah, ad stuff, but yeah, thus far it feel like it's only been like, you know, like a charge attack or like an extra at the end of your combo.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Fast, rapid fire weak shots yet.
Liam: Nothing, nothing really earth shattering or anything.
Liam: I do feel like I do feel like there's enough there, that there's like the ability for the user to develop preference, which is at least a sign that they've they've hit
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: they've surpassed a very low bar.
Liam: I like the twin blades, and I like that you actually do occasionally want to switch to arranged weapon.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: They actually do manage to make that appealing sometimes, not to mention having the bow accessible on the shoulder buttons, like in Breath of the Wild does.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Um, but yeah, I do agree that the combat feels, you know, light.
Liam: You have your attack button on one face button, and then you have a secondary, like, sort of artefact or, like, tool button where you get to use one of these sort of, one of the game's special tools.
Liam: So there's like a drum that you can heal yourself with later on.
Liam: There's a big fan.
Liam: You can get that can blow wind things.
Kevin: Oh, that sounds cool.
Liam: Yeah, the flame sword.
Liam: It's all right, the fan.
Liam: you know, if you've seen the other ones, you kind of already have a good idea what it is.
Kevin: Well, yeah, I I get it.
Kevin: It's, it's a, it's a boost button, a little, a little buff, a little, little plop of something.
Liam: Yeah, exactly.
Kevin: It's not, you know, earth shattering, but...
Liam: Um
Liam: Yeah, it's simplistic, but I think for me, it's like, it's it's above the bar where I'm like, this is too little.
Liam: Probably my biggest complaint is I feel like the balancing of the combat feels a little on the easy side on the normal difficulty.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, and on the hard difficulty, I don't know that I feel terribly satisfied by the enemies just doing a ton of damage.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Uh, like it doesn't, it doesn't really make it more interesting to me.
Liam: Uh, so I think that's my biggest dissatisfaction is like the enemies are not that interesting.
Liam: They all kind of just walk towards you or walk.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, and that's probably the worst thing to me.
Liam: The bosses have more unique enemy AI.
Liam: Uh, I think you'll see if you, if you continue to play in the autumn one, you fight this big Tanuki boss who has somewhat more unique AI, and like those fights, you definitely have to be a little more careful even on the normal difficulty. Uh, but ultimately, like, you know, you're still not playing, you know, bayonet of three, you're still, you're still not playing Tears of the Kingdom, you know.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: The combat's serviceable.
Kevin: I mean, Yeah.
Liam: And if you like hitting buttons, you'll you'll probably find something to it.
Kevin: Yeah, like I...
Kevin: So, I mean, I mean, yeah, like, I mean, you, it could be said, you and I are definitely people who enjoy a little bit of a challenge or a little zest or combat, right?
Kevin: We, I'm like, even Zenless, which is fairly light combat wise, but you still compare.
Liam: Mm.
Kevin: you can dodge and and, you know, swap characters, right?
Kevin: There's there's a little meat on those bones.
Kevin: We appreciate that.
Kevin: But like here, you know, there's not that much.
Kevin: So, but again, hottage court space, you know, that's not generally everyone, like the biggest focus, so, yeah, it might appeal to a lot of people, but, um, I will say, like, I agree that, I see them trying stuff, they, they have some clever ideas, even in just the brief snapshot I had, like the tree boss in the, in the summer, uh, village, like all of a sudden, there's a big old target, like, literally bulls on his forehead, and you got to bring out the bow, and, and you hit it with the fire arrows, and I'm like, oh, that's, that's actually kind of fun, um, mixing it up.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Yeah, it's true, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: It's like the 1st enemy you really can't just spam your sword at or whatever.
Kevin: And then there's some flying enemies where you have to switch to the talismans, just, I guess, maybe the tutorial fight, but, um, like, okay, I see little little bits and pieces that, but you're right.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Like.
Kevin: But that's mostly special or boss fights, like out in the field. So far, I've just experienced, like you said, they just charge at you, you're trying to dodge or heal yourself, you get hit.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: It's not a lot of thought into that.
Liam: Yeah, I agree.
Liam: I some sometimes I'm sure you've had this experience too.
Liam: Sometimes you're just like, I'm just gonna run past these enemies, and that's fine.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Does make you wonder if a game with stronger combat would make me want to engage with them a little more.
Liam: Um, but I don't know.
Liam: I think where I land on the combat is like, it's it's enough.
Liam: It's just enough that I'm like, this is fun, asterisk.
Liam: This is fun with a lowercase F.
Kevin: Yeah. Yeah.
Liam: You know, like, uh, it's certainly better.
Liam: I don't know.
Liam: I'm of 2 minds.
Liam: It's more involved than the previous room factory games combats.
Kevin: Uh-huh.
Liam: Um, but they do like 3 and 4 do benefit from their simplicity a little bit.
Kevin: Sure.
Liam: Uh, you know, where you only have, you know, sort of like how a top down, like a Zelda fields or something like that.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: You know, you don't really tend to look back at like a link to the past or links awakening and be like, oh, you only have one slash and a spin attack.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's too little.
Liam: Because the enemy designs are good and they do fun stuff with it.
Kevin: Yeah, and and it's,
Liam: So I think 3 and 4 benefit from that in a way that, uh, doesn't work so well in 3D if you only had like, you know, 2 sword slashes.
Kevin: Right.
Liam: So they, you know, they had a big task in reinventing themselves here and continuing to build off of five.
Liam: And I think they've, they're just, they're, they're at a place where I'm like, okay, at least hit this bar going forward and, and, and you've got me, I think, but.
Liam: But, uh, to what you were saying, yeah, we're not exactly platinum games over here or anything like that.
Kevin: Yeah. Uh, and I say all this with a, a, um, almost a hope that we, that, you know, if, and I think I may actually continue to play this because it's, it's, it has, it's kept my interest, like I, I'm enjoying it.
Kevin: It's not bad.
Kevin: I have to emphasise that like, you know, we're, people know, they listen to the show, this podcast is what we do, we critique.
Kevin: Um, like I am enjoying it.
Kevin: And with how lengthy it is, like, I hope there's some evolution later on the comment, maybe there is, maybe there's not, might be, you know, overly optimistic here, but, uh, Um, we'll, we'll, I don't know, we'll see.
Kevin: Just, again, I'm just thinking very early snapshot.
Kevin: I'd be loved to prove it wrong or to make look like a fool later.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: To be honest, we're being very critical, but I think we're probably talking about like the bit that, well, I don't know about you, but that I'm probably the most kind of a little mixed on, because I think I think other stuff, they do more cleanly well where I'm like, oh, this is just pretty well executed.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like, the towns in general, I think are, like, pretty well executed.
Liam: There's a bunch of characters who like I kind of want to talk about.
Liam: There's enough characters to really have preferences and be like, oh, maybe I will marry you one day.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, well yeah.
Liam: Um, uh, the, the village building is simultaneously limited and somewhat free where you have like specific areas you're allowed to build, but they're incorporated right into the towns.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: So you kind of have little plots and you have good freedom with what you can do there and automating all of the farming stuff, I think, is also very enjoyable.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like I think they do a lot, right?
Liam: in the other areas of the game too.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know.
Liam: What do you think about that?
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: What do you think?
Liam: I've kind of balled like 20 topics together there.
Kevin: That's fine.
Liam: But like...
Kevin: No, I mean, it's good, good, short segue to all these, but, um, so yeah, like, obviously here.
Kevin: Um, we, this is, this is our, our, our wine.
Kevin: This is where we're connoisseurs, right?
Kevin: How does the farming and the village mechanics where, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Like we, we are.
Liam: On the flip side, I'm not so versed in that.
Liam: I used to play a lot more of them as a kid, but as an adult, I've definitely leaned away from it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So I'm curious to hear your perspective.
Kevin: So I think, okay, 1st of all, I think, like you said, it's clean.
Kevin: It's very clean.
Kevin: Um, probably the worst, or one of the most common issues, any cottage core game is being clunky or, or, you know, having an intuitive AI or UI, excuse me, UI or or, um, or, or just, you know, things are inconvenient, lacking some quality of life, et cetera, et cetera.
Liam: UIM.
Kevin: Um, you know, we've been through this so many times, that sort of stuff, we'll pick up real quick.
Kevin: Um, I didn't pick up on anything of that so far, and it's interesting because, um, I think the approach is somewhat unique because you know how it is in in Stardew or Harvest Moon.
Kevin: Here's your plot of land, and, you know, you plant your seed, your water, and there's your animal bar, and there's your crafting building.
Kevin: What have you, right?
Kevin: You, you go to this location, that location to, to do this activity or whatnot.
Kevin: The plots here are interesting because it's, it is still works in many ways like a farming plot where you plant your seed and water and all that.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: But it's a sort of, it's, it's, every tile you can place different things.
Kevin: You can customise this plot, not just farm, but what kind of buildings you're going to do?
Kevin: Um, right, here's a building that can produce salt.
Kevin: Here's a carpenter.
Kevin: a, a, a shop, um, because you, and and it's, it ties well into the theme and the story of the game of, you're trying to build up the village, right?
Kevin: It's not just your, your, you know, your grandfather's farm you inherited.
Kevin: It's you're you're trying to to get people to come visit the the population to grow.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: You're really trying to like restore places to their former grandeur, which is which is nice.
Kevin: Exactly.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: So, because of that, right, we and weirdly enough, they make you the chief in every village, good old diagonitis, I guess.
Kevin: I don't know.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um, but, um, and.
Liam: Well, you you're conferred that special role, like the drive-in stuff.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So, anyway, yeah.
Kevin: And so, but it ties in because it feels less, like, you're not giving your farm.
Kevin: you don't have to go out and water the same crops every day.
Kevin: Um, you, the one of the nice mechanics is, as these random NPCs, not the named characters that you can have relationships with.
Liam: Yeah, the generic ones.
Kevin: Your population will grow, and they'll do tests for you.
Kevin: They'll do work for you inside your plot in your village.
Kevin: They'll, till, you know, they'll do the farming for you.
Kevin: They'll water stuff, harvest crops, plant seeds.
Kevin: Um, they'll run the shops and and and, you know, serve different roles there.
Kevin: Um, so it's a little more management focussed and then just the straight up farming.
Kevin: Um, And I think it will, it works well because you can still go up to, if you're so inclined, you can go up to, uh, uh, the plants or the plots and water them if you're, you know, impatient or harvest them or whatever, you're more than welcome to do that.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: But, um, I get, it's, it's this game sort of attempt at, I guess, automation, um, which is, we're, one thing we're big around here.
Kevin: Um, but, um, uh, just because we've done it so many times.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: It is, it is, it is neat.
Liam: And and you, in theory, you could even assign all your, because you do have to assign them to their roles, right?
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: You could even assign them all to the shops and do all the farming yourself if you wanted to, but, um, I think one of the ways in which automation benefits this game is because the farms are spread across 4 maps that you have to load between.
Kevin: Yeah, that is absolutely true.
Kevin: I didn't think about that.
Kevin: You could.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, the load times are reasonably good, but you do have to load between them and walk to them as opposed to like a harvest moon or a Stardew, where all of your plants are all generally in the same spot.
Kevin: That's correct.
Liam: I think having automation really benefits it, or else like, man, could you imagine if every day in this game, you had to warp to each town, walk to your plots, water, maintain, and then do it 4 times, like for each town, it would be a nightmare.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: It would.
Liam: Like the automation, I think, is really a smart choice.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, and they and they introduce it like nice and early, right up front to you, um, which which is clever because, you know, in so many of these other cottage core games, is a whole song and dance, you have to wait X number of days to get your horse, you have to unlock certain things, um, hit certain checkpoints.
Liam: Yeah, they do.
Kevin: But here they just kind of throw it all at you, um, which is, again, very nice.
Kevin: And you know, we're talking about all this functionally, but they make an attempt, like, they give you decorations and stuff like that, just, just for, or not purely aesthetics because they'll give you bonuses and boosts.
Kevin: But, um, you know, it's also a customisable thing on which, you know, a lot of people.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: So, um, I like that.
Kevin: And, and you know, not, and also, I see like, I haven't done it because I haven't gotten that far, but you clearly see there's other plots of land you can unlock.
Kevin: Um, later on, once you, you know, get certain tools or whatever because there's a, you know, a green bush.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: I can't cut it or whatever.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: There's these like blighted things, these oppositional forces just hogging the land.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: It is miasma.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: I finally was able to clear the green one in the in the spring town, which is which is nice because it's like, oh, I have my my accessible land just doubled because I got this fan.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: And that one's cool because that one like there's elevation going on now.
Kevin: What are we doing here?
Liam: Yes?
Kevin: We got water.
Kevin: We got we got different stuff.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah, it's it's cute and and, you know, like Pocopia, not anywhere near as involved, but like Pocopia, yeah, you can make little rivers and little, like, stepped areas and you can make some really cute spaces.
Kevin: No.
Liam: Having seen some screenshots and looked at my own spring village, I must say.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: You can you can make some really cute spaces in this game.
Kevin: Yeah, you can.
Liam: in a way I feel quite positive about, honestly.
Kevin: I agree.
Kevin: Um, yeah, it works well the, because yeah, it's interesting because you have to craft a farm plot.
Kevin: I don't think I've seen that in any other game, but you're literally crafting every single tile or what you're going to put on every single tile.
Kevin: So it's all intentional and thoughtful.
Liam: Yeah, you're you're right.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: You're right.
Liam: In most farming games, you just take the tiller and you do that on the grass and it turns into dirt, right?
Kevin: Yeah, mhm.
Liam: You're right.
Liam: In this game, you have to get like a item that is like a tilled soil and put it on the tile, which is which is a little weird when you think about it, and it's definitely against how these things normally go, but you are right in pointing that out.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, but but that's almost a positive here, to be honest, because one of the things we like around here, again, having gone through, you know, the song you dance so many times.
Liam: That is funny.
Liam: But it works.
Liam: It works.
Kevin: We like to see different ideas, how you're going to be different, the originality.
Kevin: So it's interesting at the bare minimum.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, and it, again, feels as well executed clean.
Liam: And yeah, even if it goes against genre convention, like normally it would be like you have a bunch of items during your inventory, you take the tailor, you till, you put the seeds in the earth, which is another item, and then you use the watering item to water it, right?
Liam: It's like multiple different interactions.
Liam: In this game, because of the combat focus, they put like largely combat tools in your item slots, right?
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Like the sword and the fan and the drum.
Liam: So I think it made sense in this game to just have, basically you have this magic tiller and that magic tiller just gives you access to like placing things.
Liam: You can even use the mouse on the Switch too to like zoom out and just manually.
Kevin: Yeah, mouse mode.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: And so in that regard, it feels okay to put down like tilled dirt in like that sort of impersonal kind of way, because the structure of your inventory is just not quite the same as how it's handled in other farming games, where like here, yeah, everything is put into one spot here, like buildings and seeds and dirt, whereas in other titles, it's like, well, you're not doing the buildings so much.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, you're you're right because.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So it kind of makes
Kevin: Yeah, no, and I, I mean, I appreciate it, honestly, that's, that's another, that's another big uh, hurdle, a lot of game struggle with.
Liam: Anyway.
Kevin: Um, invent, like even just the inventory structure.
Kevin: Like, does your game have, you know, a quick access tool belt or whatever, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Do your tools, share inventory with your other items, things like that.
Liam: Yo, right, yeah.
Kevin: We see different approaches and sometimes not great ones, lots of times, not great answers to those design challenges.
Kevin: But this one I think does pretty well.
Kevin: Like you said, a lot of the, uh, your inventor, or it's lots that you're actually equipping and switching out, um, are more combat focussed.
Kevin: Um, you have the tools which do have some functionality on the farm, but, but it's, at least it's very specific.
Kevin: Um, But like your seeds and all that, honestly, you can just chuck them in a storage box and everything in the village is linked.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: You don't have to think about it.
Liam: God, yeah.
Kevin: Which I, Al, I know Al's listening to this and just jumping for joy because he hates that having to dig up stuff or find it from a different area.
Kevin: He wants all the inventory links.
Kevin: But um, so yeah, so, you know, it's it's convenient if nothing else.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: I think they made a lot of good choices with item management.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like when you hit, if I'm not mistaken, when you hit up on the D-Pad or whatever, it opens up, hang on, I have a game right here.
Liam: You hit up on the deep pad, it opens up your inventory, and like the default items at the top are like food and healing items, which is great because you're doing 3rd person action.
Liam: And then, like, when you're at the, uh, and oh, yeah.
Liam: So, and from here, yeah, you can't see your buildings or anything even.
Liam: And then when you're building stuff, all the food and healing items are just hidden because you don't need them in that menu.
Liam: Lots of good little decisions there, nearly infinite storage capacity for putting stuff away, and like a generous onhand storage capacity for your inventory.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, you're right.
Liam: These are frictions that I don't tend to to think about because I don't I don't play as many of these games that have 7000 different item types.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But yeah, I think that they made a lot of good choices here in that regard because I don't feel like there's much friction negative.
Kevin: Yeah, absolutely.
Kevin: No, they they put what you need like, right, you know, the easy to access or like when you're even contextually, like, because when you're inside the farming plot, you're some of your buttons change, right?
Kevin: Like there's a quick button to access the magic tiller that does everything or whatever.
Liam: Yes, yeah.
Kevin: Um, so, so it's, it's very thoughtful and and, and well done, right?
Kevin: Um, because, you know, we, we see the antithesis of this where you have to have 300 different crafting stations and you have to know which item goes which one and and what, and what materials you need to create and so on and so forth.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, the webs and chains can get very long and messy, but um, but not here.
Kevin: Not here at all.
Kevin: Very, very clean, very well done.
Kevin: Um, I think, uh, I think a lot of people um, who listen in and the hosts, including out, would actually be very surprised and and interested to, to, to try this out because uh, it feels good. Like, I will say that, like, the whole game, it feels good.
Liam: Yeah, I think so.
Kevin: Nothing feels bad, nothing feels clunky or slow or sticky or, um, Yeah, so I like mechanically.
Liam: Yeah, it's pretty sharp.
Kevin: It's, it's a well done, very clean game.
Kevin: Um, which, boy, we appreciate it.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Many games are in early access for a long time, Liam, for a reason.
Liam: I had one.
Liam: Wow, yeah, that's that's how I go.
Liam: I had one not complaint, but there was one thing I ran into that I found at 1st a little, confusing is not the right word, but there was like a slight lack of clarity, where like, when I got to the summer village, I was like, oh, I wanna, like, build some buildings and stuff.
Liam: And I was like, where do I go to build buildings?
Liam: And I like sort of ran around the whole town?
Kevin: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Liam: And it was like, where do I go to build buildings?
Liam: And at some point I clicked.
Liam: It's like, okay, I have to actually go back to the spring village to build buildings.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I have to go.
Liam: And from there, you can build a building to put in the summer village that is for building buildings so that then you can do it in the summer village.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But you do also need to find an NPC who has the a random NPC who has the specialty that lets them build buildings. Because not everyone has that.
Liam: And I think this is a piece of friction that I like because it really supports the whole, like, uh, uh, reconstruction of an area.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Not everyone's gonna be good at everything.
Liam: And like, there is a certain, a certain scrapiness to like working with what you have and like, oh, I need to, I need to go back to the other town to get this because we still don't have the resources in this town.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But the way it presented to me at 1st was a lack of clarity where I was like, wait, how do I do this?
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: And I wasted a bunch of time running around the summer village.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And then, and then I repeated that in the fall village, uh, again, um, because that was where I picked up, uh, for, uh, before this podcast.
Liam: I picked back up at the beginning of the fall village and I repeated this exact same thing over again, before realising, oh, yeah, right, I still have to go back to the Spring Village.
Liam: Thankfully, I got the resources in the fall village.
Liam: I got a guy who can do it.
Liam: I still don't have one in the summer village, but hopefully, hopefully we'll be able to develop some.
Liam: Someday.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, the, the, uh, go ahead, sorry.
Kevin: What?
Kevin: No, I was just going to say, like, I, I, you're right.
Kevin: I get that because, um, some of it like, how should I put this, like the jumping back and forth between villages isn't explicitly laid out at first, I think, um, at least not super clearly.
Liam: No, you're right, actually.
Kevin: Um, in fact, they do a whole send off from the spring village, like you're going off and you're not going to be back in a while when you literally can just warp back as soon as you land.
Liam: that's true.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, and, and, You exactly, exactly.
Liam: And you will almost certainly have to go back within like, yeah, yeah, totally, totally.
Kevin: So it feels weird disconnect.
Kevin: But what I like, um, so, you know, aside from that awkwardness of framing it.
Kevin: Um, what I do, I kind of do like this as well, is this little friction because, for me, what I like is the connectivity?
Kevin: between the villages.
Kevin: Um, like you said, not just having the resources, but, hey, I need a carpenter.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Well, you know, we got our carpenter buddy back in the Spring Village.
Kevin: Let's go see, you know, I'm gonna go see him for help to, you know, build some buildings or what have you.
Kevin: Um.
Kevin: And then jumping ahead a little here, but then, as you build it up, eventually, NPCs will start just hopping randomly between villages, and that's really cool, and and I like that, that feeling of connectivity, like, it, yes, they're 4 separate zones, but it all feels like one, you know, region now.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Like people are travelling and visiting and and, you know, you get to see your, your, your, your crew from one group hanging out another one like, oh, what are you guys doing here?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, so I, I, I appreciate that.
Liam: And it's like explicitly tourism too, which is kind of cute.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: It is.
Liam: They are explicitly going to villa to the villages to, like, see stuff and take in the sites. And I even I even had a conversation with the, the, the lady who runs at Iroha who runs the, the shop.
Kevin: Iroha, uh-huh.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, in the 1st Spring Village and Uraka, the goddess of spring.
Liam: I had a conversation with them earlier, one of their events that was like they were talking about how, yeah, like now there's more tourists here and like the positives and negatives of that.
Liam: And I was like, oh, this is very light Japan politics going on in this conversation.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But I agree that seeing these sort of interplay as you build back up the town and like, it's not, they're like, they are written to not just be these isolated spaces, but like a world that, you know, where people want to explore and and like share in it and all.
Liam: I think that's very, I think that's very cool.
Liam: Um, and I really think that's well executed.
Liam: kind of.
Liam: I think it's 50% very well executed.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And then I want to loop back on something you said about how when you finish the Spring Village, there's like a sendoff, right?
Liam: Like goodbye, farewell.
Liam: That bit of the narrative design, I feel, is less well executed because they really, they're really going for like a very grand thing, like this huge world and like you're, you're, you're riding a dragon between areas, which is like visually pretty neat.
Kevin: Certainly.
Kevin: It is.
Liam: Um, but, but yeah, ultimately everywhere is like a stone's throw away.
Liam: So like, there is a slight narrative disconnect where the world is simultaneously infinitely vast, but also extremely small.
Liam: Um, and like that is acknowledged within the narrative of the world as well, where characters like Iroha, who, she's, uh, she runs a t-shop.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: She's just casually on the autumn town just checking out the sites.
Liam: She can just, like, if she can just get around.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Surely the world can't be that big, right?
Liam: Um, so, you know.
Kevin: I do wonder how they do it.
Kevin: We have a literally a dragon, and that's our only means of transportation.
Kevin: How did they show up?
Liam: Yeah, but how do they?
Liam: Clearly, all the people have also the access to the fast travel menu that you have access to.
Kevin: Clearly.
Liam: So, um, you know, so there's like a little narrative disconnect there, but it's small, and I really feel like it's in service to benefitting the game, where, like, it's cute to see other characters wandering around the wrong places.
Kevin: It is.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, yeah.
Liam: Uh, uh, speaking of the fast travel, uh, once you get to grips with the fast travel menu, man, that's a good fast travel.
Kevin: It's so good.
Kevin: You get, oh, you just cycle through all the pages.
Liam: It's really good.
Kevin: There's there's no like submenus.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh, and it's snappy and you see where you go.
Liam: And it's,
Kevin: There's lots of points.
Kevin: Oh, it's no complaints.
Liam: Yeah, it's granular, it's clear from the map menu you can even move around a cursor to go like between spots.
Liam: Like, man, they really, like really, really well oiled machine, that like fast travel system.
Liam: It's like a little thing, but it really saves you a lot of time positive.
Kevin: It is, yeah, absolutely.
Kevin: Um, because this gapes, right?
Kevin: that's that's the dark path that we could have gone, right?
Kevin: Like no fast travel.
Kevin: You got to fly every time to go back between your villages.
Liam: Good God.
Liam: Man, yeah, if you had to like run back to like a dragon point to like fly at the village.
Kevin: Avira.
Liam: There's this, um, yeah.
Liam: We didn't really, I think we might have mentioned it in passing, but so there's like, there's like the 4 villages, as far as we know, there might be other large areas, but then, and they're all floating in the sky.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, imagine like Legend of Zelda Skyward Sword.
Kevin: Yeah, really is like that.
Liam: And, and, and just like Skyward, there's a bunch of micro islands that are just little things.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: There's this one island with this lady who wants you to bring desserts that you like that, like specific target desserts.
Liam: All these little sky islands, like they're very small, but they really contribute to like a good feeling of adventure, like getting to fly through the sky, simplistically, but like nonetheless, like working towards building the feeling of a vast world.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I think it works.
Liam: I kind of like it, honestly.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: I know, I do too.
Kevin: Visually, like, it feels like a broken up land scattered amongst the skies, like I get the feeling from it.
Liam: Yeah, it does.
Liam: And I have to give special shout outs to the animator who did the animation when you land, and the dragon like coils itself around the landing point.
Kevin: What's so good?
Liam: It's really cool, actually.
Liam: Like when I saw that for the 1st time.
Liam: I was like, whoa.
Liam: Whoa, I'm sad.
Liam: skip that every other time now, but um, yeah, um, cool stuff, honestly.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, I think. Yeah.
Kevin: Okay, now, let's get to the, let's get to the real meat of this.
Kevin: We we know what we're here for, Liam.
Kevin: We, we, we, we got.
Liam: Hot singles in your area.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: So, well, here's the thing, Liam, um.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: Relationship mechanics are a not contentious, but they're a sensitive topic here at the harvest season because here's the thing.
Kevin: When you're doing well, they're excellent.
Kevin: Not every game has them, but boy, a lot of games feel like they do when they come.
Kevin: So, so we we've seen highs and lows of relationships, but this is ruin factors.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: It's just Harvest Moon.
Kevin: We, the expectation is set.
Kevin: Like, we know we're going to get quality relationships and more importantly, what are, what is, does the cast look like?
Kevin: That's the big question.
Kevin: So, um, well, I mean, guess, should we start with general relationship mechanics?
Kevin: I guess we can start with that.
Kevin: Um, It's, I mean, it's.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I think so.
Liam: I also have a contentious relationship with relationship mechanics, though, like, building on what you were saying as well.
Kevin: Oh?
Liam: So, so, but I think this game does it pretty, pretty well, I think, actually.
Kevin: Yeah, I agree.
Liam: So I'm interested to hear what you.
Kevin: Yeah, no, I agree with that.
Kevin: Um, because here's the thing, like, it, and again, all from very early on.
Kevin: And this is an interesting one because this is a mechanic that evolves, which is not something we see.
Kevin: I can't think of very frequently.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: It's, you know, your standard, talk to your character, give gift.
Kevin: Uh, you'll get a cut scene eventually.
Kevin: Like that's, that's kind of what the relationship mechanics always boil down to, right?
Kevin: Um, usually it hinges on the quality of the characters and the interactions and then, you know, the the cutscenes, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Like do they feel like real people?
Kevin: But this is the 1st time, like, the more you do things, the more options you get.
Kevin: And I mean, functionally, they're not that different.
Kevin: It's just like a tiny micro cutsy, um, you go to a forest or you, you, you hang out or whatever, but it's the flavour of like you're bonding, so you want to do more, you know, you're more comfortable hanging out doing different things.
Kevin: I think that's that's pretty clever.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, like I said, I don't can't recall that popping up in other things.
Kevin: Another games.
Kevin: Um, I also, um, What was it?
Kevin: Oh, but it does tie into gameplay, which is a big, big issue. Like, I always want to see the relationships playing to gameplay. Like, you can take people out into your party once, you know, you know them a little bit.
Kevin: You can, um, You you can take them to certain locales and and and do things.
Kevin: Um, So like, yeah, I I like I like the relationship mechanics a lot.
Kevin: Um, your thought?
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, I think they did a really good job.
Liam: I don't like how in a lot of games with relationship mechanics.
Liam: Like they tend to boil down to like just following the line where it's like, okay, well, I'll just go choose to spend time with this one and then a relatively fixed thing will happen and then eventually the points will tick up.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yep.
Liam: Um, I particularly dislike, maybe this is contentious, but I particularly dislike in like persona, uh, the, sorry, modern personas, where, uh, like they're like, they have like enumerated levels and stuff like that.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like, I feel like that feels very unnatural, though I do understand that they come hand in hand with like giving you skills and abilities that tie to those levels.
Kevin: Oh, that.
Liam: So I get it.
Liam: I get that there's a necessity there, but it's not my preference.
Liam: I think this game does a better job at making them feel a little more natural, um, with how it sort of randomises the things you can do with them every day.
Kevin: Yeah, that's very fun.
Liam: Yeah, as you were saying, you have an option.
Liam: you have like a couple options.
Liam: I think 4 options is what you're what you're handed when you want to interact with them every day, but you have no bearing on those 4 options.
Liam: I'm not even sure if give a gift is always.
Liam: It might be, it might be the one that's always there, but,
Kevin: Uh, I I don't think so.
Kevin: Um, like a small tangent, but like we talked about skill trees.
Kevin: One of the the skill trees, uh, which there are many, uh, is your social skills, and you can actually, I, I look down the list, you can unlock a reset.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, if you don't like the options presented to you.
Kevin: Um, you can do a reset.
Liam: Oh, like a like reroll the options?
Kevin: Yeah, re-roll the options.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: That's funny.
Liam: I didn't know.
Liam: But yeah, like every day with every character, you get a different role of like 4 things you can do with them.
Liam: And it sort of gives you an idea of like how intense the activity is, how long it'll take in in-game minutes and how the intensity is proportionate to the reward, I guess, in terms of like character experience.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: But it's cute, and there are wrong choices depending on the character and where your relationship level is at with them.
Liam: I tried to take one of the characters to the beach, and I was turned down, and our relationship levelled down, and I was like, ouch, oof, um, yeah.
Kevin: Woof.
Kevin: Ooh, I didn't, I, that, I'm too early.
Kevin: I haven't seen that.
Kevin: Ooh, I like that, though.
Liam: Yeah, that happened, that happened.
Kevin: I like the.
Liam: Um, no, totally.
Liam: I wasn't expecting it either.
Liam: So it was like, ooh.
Liam: And then I couldn't, I couldn't do another interaction with that character that day because I had already spent it, right?
Kevin: And it hurts so much.
Liam: So, um, it does.
Kevin: You're just, you're just regretting it, just, just like the real life.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh, no, I screwed it up.
Liam: Exactly.
Kevin: Look at me.
Liam: Yeah, no good feelings.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: So yeah, like every day you can do like a brief chat with a character, which gives you like the barest of anything, and then you can also do one activity that is like semi-random.
Liam: Some of them require you to give up an item, you know, like giving a gift or whatever.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: And I think, I think that's nice because it, it does feel like you're just doing different stuff spontaneously with them.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, and I think one of the things I, I like is like the next step, which is that, yeah, when you hit different relationship levels, you, you unlock, like, uh, you unlock fetch quests for them, which are not all that interesting, but each character has different, like, you know, bring me these items for this item, and those are fixed, they're not random or procedural.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Uh, and then you also unlock, like, the the sort of cutscenes and quests attached to them.
Liam: And those, I really like that those don't follow a rigid pattern.
Liam: Like I have one character in the Spring Village, the warrior fellow.
Liam: Um, he has been locked for me for a while.
Liam: It keeps saying, like, advanced the story, and that's like his, that's like very early in his thing.
Liam: whereas other characters I've been able to progress quite deeply.
Kevin: Really?
Kevin: Huh.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Um, and, and like the quests, obviously they all follow similar patterns, like fundamentally, that's, you know, still a Harvest Moon game, but like they don't, they're not totally predictable in their cadence and contents, you know, like they're not the same scene.
Kevin: Sure.
Kevin: Hmm.
Kevin: Sure, right, right.
Liam: I genuinely, I genuinely think they did a really good job with the character.
Kevin: Yeah, they're they're fitting to the character, absolutely.
Kevin: Um, I want to back up the, going back to the, you know, the, the, before activities.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Please do.
Kevin: There is, there is one, uh, and you mentioned it, but it's, it's just a fascinating thing because I don't think it's something I haven't seen really in another, uh, audage core games.
Kevin: The time element.
Kevin: Um, Because, I mean, look, this is, this is, you know, pottage course, Stardew, the harvest, when you know how it is.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Every 2nd's a minute, clocks ticking down.
Kevin: And in most games, people tend to, uh, actually, have a desperate need to maximise or optimise their time and day.
Kevin: Um, so, you know, when you have to give a whole hour.
Liam: Mm.
Kevin: Um, to, uh, if you want to, you know, do something significant to hang out with someone, like that's, that's an interesting little, uh, you know, your resources, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Do you want to spend the time and then and boost this relationship or do you not want to miss the event that's going to happen only at 9 AM and, you know, and wait until the next day or whatever.
Kevin: Um, I think that's, that's clever, how there's, there's a little bit of a cost there um, to consider.
Kevin: Again, just something novel.
Liam: Yeah, it's nice.
Kevin: Go ahead.
Liam: Yeah, no, I totally agree that it's nice.
Liam: Even if like the the time is like pretty lax.
Liam: It's just another, just another thing that you have to consider.
Liam: Uh, it's good.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I agree.
Liam: It's positive.
Liam: totally agree.
Liam: Um, but yeah, the, no, the relationship stuff, I, I feel is like,
Liam: risingly well done, I guess.
Liam: Like, I expected it to be more like generic across characters, you know?
Kevin: Yeah, mhm.
Liam: And certainly when you're doing those like, you know, for random things you can pick from, those are your generic ones.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Uh, and they're and they're over in a flash and like you're in and out and you move on.
Liam: But yeah, when you actually hit the story sequences for the characters.
Liam: Like the one I mentioned quite a bit earlier about like over tourism problems in the Spring Village, um, it's like, yeah, that was that was very much unique from all the other characters stories, uh, down to the cut scene and everything. Like, uh, so generally I feel really positive about the relationship thing.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, you mentioned also before bringing the characters out.
Liam: You can bring up to 3 characters with you to explore the world and do combat and stuff with you.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: And they have a couple different types.
Liam: There's like attacker, attacker, buffer, debuffer, and I think there's a 4th couldn't be defender.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Your healer?
Liam: But anyway.
Liam: Oh, yeah, yeah, healer, I think, yeah.
Kevin: There's there's Defender two.
Kevin: Yeah, tacker defender, buffer, de-buffer, and healer, yeah.
Liam: Is there also defend?
Liam: Okay, yeah.
Kevin: There's a lot of touch.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, that's interesting because they're they're fairly fleshed out, like, unlike other games where, you know, the party comes and they'll they'll do whatever, you know, maybe just set up as targets or whatever.
Kevin: Anyways, you can fully equip them out with gear.
Kevin: They have their own levels and...
Liam: Yeah, the gear changes their appearance slightly as well.
Kevin: They're, yeah, you can modify their appearance. They're like, they're, they're full on party members, which is kind of wild to think about now that I, like, saying it out because I, I know it's, it's common fair in other games, but in this sort of, like, Harvest Moon game.
Liam: Like this, yeah, yeah.
Liam: A little.
Kevin: Yeah, no, that's actually really novel and really cool, actually.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: It's... It's a little unusual for sure.
Liam: So it is nice. And they are, I wouldn't say that they're, like, they're not as effective in combat as you are.
Kevin: No.
Liam: No question, but they are active participants at all times.
Kevin: Nope.
Kevin: They are.
Liam: Like they are taking enemies aggression off of you.
Kevin: That's the main thing, always.
Liam: They are always in there doing stuff.
Liam: Like, they don't feel like they're doing nothing, which is nice because so often in a lot of action RPGs, like the party members feel like they're contributing so little that, like, they may as well not be there at all.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Pass the heel, Donald.
Liam: Right?
Liam: Yeah, right?
Liam: But no, you feel like they're always there.
Liam: They do chatter to you as well.
Liam: I think there's actually an option to turn down and off their chatter.
Kevin: Sure.
Liam: Uh, maybe telling that the developers had had feedback on that that informed that decision, but, um, I have left the chatter on, um, It's it's cute.
Kevin: I have too.
Kevin: And and it's thought out.
Kevin: Sometimes you get specific dialogue when you bring 2 characters.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: There's there's more to it than I initially thought in that regard.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I think the one thing I wish there was because it's very nice that you get to bring people out.
Liam: I wish there were like certain events in the world that you could participate in if you had a certain character with you.
Kevin: That's what it's missing.
Kevin: That's 100%.
Liam: It would probably be nice, like a little like the tales of games, you know, like go to this place with this character.
Kevin: Yeah, skits or certain points, right?
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: Like memory spots.
Kevin: 100%.
Liam: Yeah, that sort of thing.
Liam: Um, I don't feel like it's like, it's not like a massive, massive omission that hampers my enjoyment, but it's something that when I when I realised it, I was like, oh, actually, I really...
Kevin: Yeah, no, because that that would make the, you know, the outside, you know, the fields, the combat areas will feel much more alive.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: That is one thing like, you know, good or bad.
Kevin: The village and the combat areas, very segregated.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: Yeah, there's like a loading screen between them even.
Kevin: Literally, yeah.
Kevin: Um, but that would be a nice little connected tissue.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: If you're if you're playing on Switch 2, by the way, because we've mentioned loads a couple times.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: loads are snappy.
Kevin: They are.
Liam: Gotta say, I'm a big fan of snappy loads, so, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, that's the power of the switch too.
Liam: Power switch too, maybe.
Kevin: She'll chill.
Liam: Yeah, exactly.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh man, but yeah, no.
Kevin: And so like overall, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: This is, it's actually in depth.
Kevin: You're right.
Kevin: Like, I looked at it, but again, I just, I did think about it because I'm just so auto trained from other games, but like, yeah, but in this kind of game, it is a big deal to be able to quip your party.
Kevin: have them have done.
Kevin: Um, and also, like, benefits the relationship.
Kevin: If you bring out a part a member of the party a lot.
Kevin: It boosts their relationship.
Kevin: You get the little relationship points.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: That's great.
Kevin: One of probably the biggest sin of relationship mechanics is what we call the Stardew spouse problem.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, because once she gets married...
Liam: What's the starter spouse problem?
Liam: What's the, I'm so intrigued.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: So once they become, uh, once they get hitched with you, they kind of become dead characters, like they just don't do, you know, there's no more events with them.
Kevin: Um, you can't hang out with them.
Kevin: They might go to a certain location to do a job or whatever.
Kevin: But they only have like one or 2 dialogues pretty much forever.
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: They're less interesting once you're, you know, you've spoused, you've married them.
Liam: Oh, I see.
Kevin: And so here, like, I, you know, obviously I haven't married anyone and I, I'm not saying that you're going to unlock stuff after, but you can at least take them out and go hang out as you fight stuff.
Kevin: Like, do something with your spouse.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Like that's the bare minimum weed like from these sorts of relationship mechanics, right?
Kevin: Um, you, you do pick a character to, to, to, to, you know, to stick with them, let me do something with them.
Kevin: Um, So I greatly appreciate having that option.
Liam: Yeah, that makes sense.
Kevin: And speaking of which, all right, let's put some names on the table, Liam, let's let's get to it.
Kevin: We got our roster of characters.
Kevin: We don't know them all.
Kevin: We haven't met them all, but, uh, what, uh, let's talk about some of the
Liam: Certainly not.
Kevin: I may not have to go over all of them, but let's talk about some of the ones that have, or better or for worse, caught your attention.
Kevin: Uh,
Liam: Uh, uh, I, I definitely, uh, really like, hang on, I'm trying to pull up a list of names because they're, I have currently encountered quite a...
Kevin: There's a lot.
Kevin: Oh, oh, fun little asterisks.
Liam: Uh,
Kevin: You can have relationship metres with people you don't get married.
Kevin: It's not exclusive to bachelor's bachelorette.
Kevin: Which is good.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Liam: So I want to make sure I have all the side characters.
Kevin: Yeah, and that's a good thing in my opinion.
Liam: It is good.
Kevin: Because it, that's a trap very easily, right?
Liam: I agree.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: You hang out with the 68 characters?
Kevin: No, you get a whole roster of people you can hang out with and flesh out, just to be buddies, just to be, you know, just to be homies with.
Kevin: Um, like, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, lots of.
Kevin: Um, like.
Liam: I really like, right away at the beginning, Suzu, the, the, the child, there is just this child, and she just hangs around in the, in the spring village, and she will, she will heal you and buff you and say all sorts of cheeky while you're out, and, um, uh, she also has different combat parameters, like she can't be hurt and stuff, like she doesn't participate in combat, really, uniquely.
Kevin: See you.
Kevin: You know?
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Wait, she doesn't.
Kevin: I haven't taken her out yet.
Kevin: Really?
Kevin: That's amazing.
Liam: Yeah, if I'm, unfortunately, my game's in a cutscene right now, so I can't double check, but if I'm not mistaken, when I'm, when you're on the inventory screen with her, like she doesn't have health bars and stuff the same way, uh, I mean, I, she has a different, uh, body type, right?
Kevin: Oh, that's incredible.
Kevin: I didn't even know that.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, she's small, yeah.
Liam: Like the child, the children are shorter.
Liam: So they probably don't have all the animations for that either.
Kevin: That's incredible.
Liam: Um, probably.
Liam: I better not be misremembering this because it'll be super embarrassing, but I do believe, yeah, um,
Kevin: That.
Kevin: Just immunity by being, that's the you, Yoda from Soul Calibre.
Liam: Yeah, child immunity.
Kevin: We get to hang out with Yoda soak out.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Right?
Liam: Um, yeah.
Kevin: Oh, that completely won 80s me on Suzu.
Kevin: Because personality wise, like she's...
Kevin: I feel like a lot of these characters, not just her, are very, are cliched, which is RPG.
Kevin: you know, judging too harshly, but you know, she's the spunky little kid.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: I'm going to be a superstar.
Kevin: You know, he's singing and dancing.
Kevin: She's fine or whatever, but I do something, yeah, you know, nothing.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: You know, it's like, yeah, whatever.
Kevin: It wasn't pretty like, but now that I know she can do that.
Kevin: Oh no, she's just going to roll with me next time.
Kevin: Let's see what she can do.
Liam: Yeah, it's cute.
Liam: I hope I'm remembering that, right?
Liam: Otherwise, I think the early ones that I like are like Ulalaka, the goddess of spring.
Kevin: Oh.
Liam: Uh, I like uh, Mirasame, the warrior fellow from the from spring.
Liam: And you haven't met this guy yet, but in the fall area, there's a guy named Quilang that I really like.
Liam: He has this sort of like cold, mysterious vibe to him.
Liam: Uh, he's he's cool.
Liam: But as far as bachelorettes, I think Ulalaka's leading the pack.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: So, a Queen, Queenland's interesting because he is a romanceable, but only in deals.
Kevin: Um, oh, also, like,
Liam: How to romance Creeline, purchase the deluxe.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, whoa, no kidding.
Liam: The seasons of love, what is this?
Liam: I didn't know about this.
Kevin: I don't know.
Kevin: I just, I did, because I knew I wasn't going to unlock everyone and, I mean, let's, look, I'm, I'm, I have to, you know, I have to see what I'm dealing with.
Liam: Sure, sure.
Kevin: Like, I gotta, you know, get, gonna get early, early vibes.
Kevin: you know, get get a glance at the roster to see what I'm picking from here.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: So, I certainly took it the list of the bachelor's bachelorette, and there's, uh, I believe one female, one male, um, uh, bachelor bachelorette that are DLC locked.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Um, but I didn't know they were characters in it.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah, he's there already.
Liam: Yeah, you're right.
Kevin: Yeah, he's cool.
Liam: This other character too, Pilica, I didn't know.
Kevin: He's the puppet guy.
Kevin: Qui Lang, I think, right?
Kevin: I think I remember.
Liam: Hmm, hmm.
Liam: Machine affinity kind of thing, yeah.
Kevin: Oh, okay.
Kevin: Um, so interesting.
Kevin: Um, I will say, uh, what was I going?
Kevin: I lost this.
Kevin: Oh, okay, look, the 2026 bar shouldn't be like this, but I'm still, I still have to give props, especially from the Japanese games.
Liam: That's okay.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: You can romance whoever you want.
Kevin: So, you know, golf clap for that.
Liam: Yep.
Kevin: Like, I hate that. I, I have to applaud it, but I will bring it up because especially on this show, we see not always the case, especially from the Japanese schools.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: It's, it's, yeah, it's,
Kevin: I, sorry, it's just, it is what it is.
Liam: It's a real low bar, but I agree.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Um, they did, so the, I think Roon Factory 5 was the 1st one that, that, uh, made it, made it that way.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: Um, and I'm glad that that seems like it will probably persist, uh,
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Look, I mean.
Kevin: This is we're in the genre with Harvest Moon for girls.
Kevin: Like, it's the bar is in hell.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: Anyways, um, I'm getting off track there, but, um, uh, uh, yeah, feeling.
Kevin: Oh, I can't wait a minute, who's cool?
Kevin: Uh, okay.
Kevin: Mudasame, the samurai guy.
Kevin: I mean, he's your geotypical wandering samurai guy wants to get stronger, but he's cool.
Kevin: I like him, though.
Kevin: I agree.
Liam: He is cool, yeah, that's it.
Kevin: He's cool.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, but he's got the bandage, you know, the, or the, what sash over the eye.
Liam: They executed it well.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: You know what it is, but I like it though.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, the Ben.
Kevin: He just wants to get stronger, but um, I don't think he's actually, oh, he is a bachelor.
Kevin: In rule that.
Kevin: Oh, oh, oh.
Kevin: Um, anyways, um, but he's a good one.
Kevin: I agree.
Kevin: Uh, okay.
Kevin: Wait, you said Unaraka earlier?
Kevin: Is this is this the Japan localisation thing?
Kevin: Did they really switch out the Ls and Rs again?
Kevin: Are you playing in Japanese?
Liam: Uh, no, I, well, I'm, they might have because it's, I'm playing in English.
Kevin: Oh, you're playing in English?
Liam: I'm playing in English, but like her name, her name would be written with our character.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Oh, Udanaka, yeah, it is.
Kevin: Like, I feel so awkward about that.
Kevin: Like, I, I mean, it's, it's, you know, it's a whole thing.
Kevin: Like, so the weird localisations and whatever, but, uh, Zolo and Zorro, but, um, anyways, I'm going through a lot, because that's the English, and that's, that's what I grew fuss into.
Kevin: But I agree.
Kevin: She's number one in my heart right now.
Kevin: She's kind of leading it.
Kevin: And she, and again, very archetypal, like she's king cared spring goddess.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: She's helping everyone.
Kevin: She's a sweetheart.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: But you know what?
Kevin: Fine.
Kevin: And you know what?
Liam: No, I I agree.
Kevin: For extra, extra context, Liam, I'm a, I'm a, uh, chronically single man.
Kevin: I'll say that.
Kevin: So everyone knows this on this show.
Liam: Oh, sir, sir.
Kevin: It's fine.
Kevin: Everyone knows that, um, my my dating tribulations are like there.
Kevin: But anyways, um, but no, she, she's just a sweetheart, and I'm a sucker for the sweethearts.
Liam: Sure.
Liam: Yeah, she's cute and she's nice and I think she makes an impact.
Liam: She makes a big impact early in the game being that she's like the 1st, uh, of the seasonal gods that the deities that you bring back.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: The deities.
Liam: And so, like, I think part of it is like, I'm just way deeper in her and the other spring people's quests than the other, uh, the other communities at this point also.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Chad, that is a big thing.
Liam: Um, But I agree, she's just nice.
Kevin: Like, I mean, Suzu.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: She's just a good kid.
Kevin: Yeah, but the, the, the recency bias or familiarity bias, whatever.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: The ones they present to you first.
Kevin: Like, yeah, they're probably gonna.
Kevin: I mean, that's just the thing that's, that's the evidence, like you, you're gonna, uh, be, you know, you're gonna gravitate towards them a little more maybe.
Kevin: I mean, Suzu is like literally the tutorial character for some of the relationship mechanics.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: So, um, so yeah, they grow, you're a high, you spend a lot of time, you know how, and yeah, yeah, all right, she's all right.
Kevin: And a digger.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Yeah, and then there's Hina and Moro that I'm not that interested in.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: There's two.
Liam: I like their role in the setting in that like right away in the spring village.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It is presented to you that people travel between village.
Liam: People travel around and they, like, you can't miss it in the story.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like their presence is literally that.
Liam: It is that like, yeah, like we want to emphasise that these places...
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, but yeah, Moro interests me very, very,
Kevin: He, he's,
Liam: than that, honestly.
Kevin: He's the guy who's talking in other language saying random bits in other languages for no reason.
Kevin: You know the type where he's, they're well travelled guy.
Liam: Sure, yeah.
Kevin: And I agree, like he's just, I don't know, he's bland.
Kevin: He's just he's too smiley.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: I think he's bland, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, no, I don't blame you.
Kevin: He know, and he knows interesting because we got a foxtail girl, so, you know, we're getting that, that, if that's, that's your, uh, preference.
Kevin: Um, let's see.
Kevin: I'm trying to think.
Kevin: Oh, one of my favourite uh, non...
Kevin: What's it? Oh gosh, uh, uh, Nakumi, our carpenter, uh, meathead friend.
Liam: Takumi, yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, he's, he's our, our little bit of a him.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: He's not an idiot per se, but he's got the himbo energy where he's helpful.
Kevin: He's buff and he's he's carpenter and and he's good with the sword.
Kevin: He's just a fun guy.
Kevin: He's just a good bro. Um, to have her.
Liam: Yeah, he is.
Liam: I agree.
Liam: Um, this is like a real deep cut and is like for for no one, but at the very beginning of the game, there's Sakaki, right?
Kevin: The old Mansukaki.
Liam: The old man, and he wants you to, and he wants you to go...
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Build stuff, right?
Liam: Recently, there was this game that came out called the Hundred Line Last Defence Academy.
Kevin: I I know this game.
Liam: Uh, which is, I adore this game.
Kevin: Yes.
Liam: It consumed my wife and I's lives.
Liam: Anyway, the main character of that game, his name is also Takumi, and there is this bossy old man character called Siri, who often addresses Takumi and tells him to do stuff, right?
Kevin: Uh-huh.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Here's the thing.
Liam: In the Japanese dub, Sakaki has Siri's voice.
Liam: And when he addresses Takumi with that voice, it triggered something deep in my head, I'm like, 0 my God, this is like, as 100 line as it gets, it's literally the boss man, the Monocuma equivalent in 100 line telling using the name of the protagonist from 100 line again.
Kevin: Yeah?
Kevin: Oh, that is a deep cut.
Liam: So if you are, if you are playing with the Japanese dub and you have played 100 line, you will also get absolutely stun locked by Sakaki addressing Takumi a couple times in the 1st chapter.
Kevin: That's fun.
Liam: Uh, anyway, complete tangent, very deep level tangent, but, um, yeah, Takumi's cool.
Kevin: amazing.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: I like him too.
Liam: He's he's cute.
Liam: Um, You, I don't believe you've gotten far enough in the game to access this character yet, but you know, you can also get Sakuna to join you, um, in, in your town, uh, there is a free DLC.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: There is a free DLC that adds Sakuna to the game.
Liam: Um, highly encourage you to download it.
Liam: I think you need to play into the autumn village and sometime during the autumn village.
Liam: Uh, you get you get the ability to build Sakuna's house.
Liam: And if you build Sakuna's house, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: People.
Kevin: People listening, like we're using, there's a lot of Japanese names, but no, people, people know my thing with Sakuna.
Liam: um
Kevin: This is this is the Sakuna.
Kevin: Oh my God.
Liam: This is the Sakuna.
Liam: Um, she is not romanceable and you can't change her equipment, but you can take her out into combat and she will fight with you.
Kevin: No.
Liam: She has voice lines.
Liam: Uh, it's, it's great.
Liam: And she looks, it's like really just her, I think, snatched from that game.
Liam: like they didn't they didn't change her proportions or anything.
Kevin: Yeah, no, the art style is different.
Liam: Um,
Kevin: I'm I'm trying not to scream to shoot yours, but people know I'll scream when I hear sucking of things.
Liam: Yeah, it's cute.
Liam: little, it's okay.
Kevin: Um.
Kevin: Wow, I legit wanted to play this game and, and, you know, went along with it not knowing soccer.
Kevin: I was in it.
Kevin: Wow, and she's...
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: She, she's there.
Liam: Her house is there.
Liam: Her little green buddy is there.
Kevin: Tama's there.
Liam: I forget his name.
Kevin: She have, is she voiced?
Liam: Um, and she has.
Liam: She's voiced, but I don't know that they did any new lines for her.
Kevin: Oh, just recycled from the game.
Liam: So she, as far as I know, she doesn't have like chat or like conversation scenes, like that's not a thing.
Kevin: Yeah, sure sure, sure.
Liam: She has a series of side quests in the like Emma plaques area of the game.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Um, so like that's as far as you get with her, but yeah, and she will also farm rice.
Liam: She has a rice specialty.
Kevin: Oh, wow, I didn't know this game had the greatest piece of DLC.
Liam: Um, so.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: It's cute.
Liam: It is free, which is nice as well, unlike the seasons of love.
Kevin: Oh, you can't equip her with stuff because she's already got the perfect set up.
Liam: No, yeah.
Kevin: She has...
Liam: Yeah, you're not gonna beat the hoe, so.
Kevin: Oh, she's voiced by Laura.
Kevin: Oh my gosh, I didn't know that.
Kevin: Wow.
Kevin: Wow, wow, wow.
Kevin: Wow, I'm gonna finish this game.
Kevin: Wow.
Liam: gonna finish this game with Sakuna on your party the whole time.
Kevin: Yes, you know, the Simpson sheep mean, move out of the way, ooh. Kasaka is here.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, move out of the way.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Oh my gosh.
Liam: For real.
Liam: You're all child party.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Wow.
Kevin: I had no idea.
Kevin: Wow, thank you for me.
Kevin: I don't, I looked stuff up.
Liam: Yeah, no, no, not at all.
Kevin: I looked up stuff on the game.
Kevin: I missed that completely.
Kevin: Wow.
Kevin: Um, okay, so out of the characters I've seen, I've exhausted pretty much.
Kevin: Fairly small roster so far.
Kevin: Um, but I did, you know, like, I took a peek at some of the other characters.
Kevin: There's 2 that do stick out to me.
Kevin: Um, first.
Kevin: I don't know if you've seen, but there's a lady named Clarice.
Kevin: She's got a
Kevin: She's got a hat on, you know, a soldier type hat.
Liam: I have seen her, yeah.
Kevin: So, yeah, you know, you've caught my interest.
Kevin: She, you know, she's the icy cold blonde lady, but she's soldier and the hat.
Kevin: So I'm very interested how we get there and yeah, I'm interested to meet her.
Kevin: The other one that I find just interesting from the principal.
Kevin: Um, so when you start your game, you pick your, are you a boy or a girl?
Kevin: Um, but they do have different names.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: Um, your, your, uh, the, your car, your Subaru, if you're a boy.
Liam: The other character, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: And then your Kagya, if you're, uh, if you're a female.
Kevin: Um, they will show up as separate characters and not just another character, they're romancable, which is kind of wild to think about, in my opinion.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, they're really not just, like, they're legitimately 2 different characters.
Kevin: Yeah, they're not avatars.
Liam: The story's the same no matter who you pick, but they're actually other characters.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: That's pretty cool.
Liam: It's cool.
Liam: I think it's very, I think it's very similar if you guys have played Genshin Impact.
Liam: I think it's like the same sort of handling as that, where like your sibling is out in the world.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: All right, that's that's all I've got.
Kevin: Um,
Liam: Hmm, on characters, not so much.
Liam: I think I wish I had more to say, but I feel like at this point, even at the beginning of the,
Kevin: We're too early.
Liam: Yeah, exactly.
Liam: Even being in the Winter Village, I still have not met everyone yet.
Kevin: All right.
Liam: I have to say, I don't think Woolby is that bad.
Kevin: Oh, I forgot.
Kevin: Okay, yeah, we got to talk about Woopy.
Kevin: So we'll be here.
Liam: Yeah, um, you have a little floating Sprite character who is a dragon, but is is now taking, assuming the shape of a woolly.
Liam: The woollies are the common enemy.
Liam: They are the Dragon Quest slime equivalent for Rune Factory.
Liam: Famously, in Rune Factory 3.
Liam: You transform into a woolly.
Liam: And, uh, like a ton of the romanceable characters are like,
Liam: Uh, which tight.
Liam: Anyway, so Wolby is this little floating sprite of a critter, and we have thoughts on Wolby.
Liam: You have thoughts.
Liam: you have strong thoughts on Wolfie.
Liam: I'm playing with a Japanese dub, so this may, I don't know what you're playing with.
Kevin: Yeah, that might be the make or break moment or or, you know, the citing factor because, okay, so this is a deep cut.
Kevin: Again, we are Sonic people, so this is a reference for us and probably no one else listening to this, but we have, there's a character called Chick from the game.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Sonic Unleashed, a a roller coaster of a sonic game with some great highs and very rough gloves.
Liam: Yes.
Kevin: Chip is uh, in the tradition of knobby and all these characters, right?
Kevin: Like your, your guide character who's yapping and and, and, anyways, not particularly popular in that game.
Kevin: Um, amongst many Sonic.
Liam: No.
Kevin: Let's say. No, I was being hyperbolic comparing Woolby to Chip, but it was hard not to get the vibes.
Kevin: He's he's got the same sort of body shape.
Kevin: He's floating around you and he's a little yappy.
Kevin: He's spunky or whatnot.
Kevin: Um, and it might be the voice.
Kevin: Like, I have to listen to Japanese voice and see how that's up to the part.
Kevin: But, um, but.
Liam: But he's got a similar vibe.
Liam: I don't disagree with what you're getting at fundamentally.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: It's the silhouette.
Kevin: It's like, if you, you know, if you just see the silhouette.
Kevin: Is that chip with orange, I see?
Kevin: Um, anyways, but, um, but, I mean, he's he's not as bad as chip.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: he's not
Kevin: he's not grading.
Kevin: I don't hate him, but, um, I, I, you know, I'm heckling him, but, like, he turns into the dragon, and, and, and I'm thankful they did that early, because I didn't want them to drag it out, like, oh, I'm a dragon, but I'm tiny, actually, and save it for the finale, which, you know, would have been very cliche, and, and whatever, but no, he turns into your, the dragon, and he's your transport.
Kevin: So, you know, he starts being very, like, useful and uh, you gave him a gameplay perspective.
Kevin: And so, you know, he's, he's all right.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, You're not a silent protagonist, but he's still doing most of the talking for you.
Kevin: Um, so, you know, it is.
Kevin: But you tell me, what are your thoughts?
Liam: I think Wolby's fine honestly.
Liam: Like, he's a goof.
Liam: He goofs around, and I don't dislike him like I dislike Chip.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I'm maybe not totally sure why.
Liam: I don't think I can put my finger exactly on why I don't find will be to be super grating or anything.
Liam: Uh, so, uh, when I did used to play Genshin Impact.
Liam: I also did not find Pymon that grading.
Liam: in English.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's something about chip that I really hate.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Chip.
Liam: I do not like, but I can tolerate characters otherwise who, uh, who are like,
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: No, I mean, Chip, Chip is another level.
Liam: Whoopi is cute.
Kevin: I'm not wrong, but like it's looking at it.
Kevin: It's the same body shape.
Kevin: They have a thing around their neck and like, it's the same thing.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: But anyways, but movie's all right.
Kevin: He's grown on me.
Kevin: Ill say that.
Liam: That's good
Kevin: Uh, I, I, I think maybe in the early story they were pushing him a little more, which makes sense.
Kevin: Um, like, I think it was a little less, uh, Palm...
Kevin: But yeah, no, we'll be fine.
Kevin: Um, yeah, okay.
Kevin: Uh, any other thoughts there?
Kevin: Oh, I'm scared.
Liam: Uh, on the characters and stuff?
Kevin: Or just in general.
Liam: No, I think I think I've got probably everything.
Liam: Any other thoughts?
Liam: I don't know, man.
Liam: Um, I think we actually have been over a lot about the game.
Liam: Uh, I think, uh, by and large, it's like a pretty dope game that does a lot of things right.
Liam: Not everything is hitting at the highest levels of execution, but like, I think it's landing enough that I feel routinely satisfied.
Liam: And I feel like that's, I feel like that's cool.
Liam: It makes me wish I had played this game more at launch.
Liam: I bought it right at the launch of the Switch 2.
Liam: Um, but my attention was soon taken away from it by Donkey Kong.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: And then I just, I sort of just never went back. And now that I'm back, while Yoshi is coming from my throat, but like other than that, you know, now that I'm back, I'm like, I actually think I wanna, like, see this game through at this point.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Like, I'm actually really enjoying it.
Liam: So maybe I'll have to buy that DLC, though.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: I did not realise that that included 2 of the characters.
Liam: One of the ones I like, actually.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, darn, but oh, well.
Liam: I did see that it goes on sale.
Liam: I'm not going to be stuck buying. I get to buy it in yen too, which is cheaper.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's like a 1650 yen, the full price compared to like, well, I don't know what it is, but that would only be like 10 US dollars.
Kevin: I was.
Kevin: Yeah, I, I mean, I, well, about it for, oh, so, I mean, as we often do, I bought it for the show to play and record.
Kevin: I've been wanting to, but you know, I wasn't looking for a bargain.
Kevin: just like, whatever, I'll just pick it up the easy thing.
Kevin: It's probably paid like...
Liam: 40, that's all that's all right.
Kevin: It's not the worst, especially in this day and age, but yeah, you know, there's probably a steam sale or something could have done.
Liam: all right.
Kevin: But also, I want it on the switch.
Kevin: Um, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, I guess.
Kevin: Um, well, I mean, yeah, so, I mean, overall, like, I think, obviously we had our criticisms because that's what we do, but I, I agree.
Kevin: Like, I think overall it's enjoyable and I mean, my my decision is made.
Kevin: I'm going, there's another game I can hit credits with sock and uh, in, so I will completing this game.
Kevin: I've got another adventure to go.
Liam: Yeah, that counts for something man.
Kevin: With with with my homegirl.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, so, yeah.
Kevin: The only, the only, like, not negative, but like, I'm gonna bring it on a combat.
Kevin: I'm just thinking like how much better she could be fighting.
Kevin: I want to I want to see the launchers in the in the airspin.
Liam: Yeah, well, you know.
Liam: You honour with the full, the full combat system unleashed.
Kevin: Yes.
Liam: Yeah, no such luck, but yeah.
Kevin: Sock on us. All right.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Well, with that said, um, thank you, Liam, for joining me on for an episode here.
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Another episode.
Kevin: Very honoured and thankfully you decided to join us again.
Kevin: Um, somehow, I didn't scare you off last time.
Kevin: So thank you.
Kevin: Um.
Liam: Not at all.
Liam: It's been a pleasure.
Liam: Thank you for inviting me.
Kevin: Um, yeah, who knows, maybe one day we'll have to, uh, sit down once more once we beat the story.
Kevin: See, see if there's there's some meat on those bones because it's another thing.
Liam: Yeah, exactly.
Kevin: There's, I thought I was, I knew what was coming, but I see that much left.
Kevin: Well, maybe I don't.
Kevin: Anyways, um...
Liam: I have I actually was spoiled on a big plot moment later in the game that I will not, you know, mention the details of.
Liam: And when I read that plot moment a while ago, I was like, ooh, I actually would like to see that, uh, one day, because it did intrigue me for sure.
Kevin: Ah, so it intrigued you.
Kevin: All right, well, that's there you go.
Kevin: So there's something.
Kevin: All right, well, that's good to know there's some, all right, that's, I mean, I'm, yeah, all right.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: um
Kevin: I'm, I'm, that's good to know.
Kevin: There's something that caught your interest that. Okay.
Liam: There's something
Liam: It's cool.
Kevin: Alright.
Liam: I mean, I haven't seen it, so it's all, you know, who knows what the execution is, but on paper, very legitimately surprising development that I was like, oh, that's actually a big deal.
Kevin: Yeah, sure.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: So anyway, uh, yeah, yeah.
Kevin: All right.
Kevin: Okay, so, as we're wrapping up, any anything you want to plug, you say, to the audience, find you not find.
Liam: Sure, sure.
Liam: Well, as always,
Liam: Blue Sky and Twitter at Liam Allen Miller, um, can also buy my video game.
Liam: The game's called Garden Guardian.
Liam: It is not Cottage Core.
Liam: It's quite the opposite.
Kevin: We covered it.
Liam: It's an action game.
Kevin: Excuse me, we we are the gatekeepers here definitively. We covered its cottage court.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: Oh, you get to pick what cottage core is, so it counts.
Kevin: Yes, yes, we are the we are the arbiters, whatever, whatever pretentious word you want to come up with.
Kevin: We're drawing the lines and we are.
Liam: I think I told you this.
Liam: I think I told you this last time, but even though it is purely an action game that is farming themed, Steam did accept it during the farming sale.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: There you go.
Liam: So that was very, that was very validating in that regard.
Liam: So if you want a cool, fun, small action game, feel free to give it a look, give it a wish list.
Liam: It goes on sale every now and again.
Kevin: That's a good one.
Liam: So don't feel the need to buy it at full price either.
Kevin: We talk.
Liam: Yeah, that's me.
Liam: Do you have anything you need to plug?
Kevin: Um, I uh, I mean, my stuff's not that interesting.
Kevin: My art account, I even...
Kevin: But I'm Cooper President.
Kevin: Yeah, I, oh.
Kevin: talk about it later, but I do pixel art.
Kevin: Um, so, or used to, I'm completely amateur.
Liam: Hmm.
Kevin: Um, I'm not, uh, I'm not the lead artist.
Liam: Sure.
Kevin: The hall or whatever.
Kevin: Um, Yeah.
Liam: That's okay.
Liam: I mean, if you, if you care about it, and you feel good about it, you know, I'm sure there's someone out there who's,
Kevin: Yeah, thank you.
Kevin: I appreciate it.
Kevin: Well, anyways, well, you guys know me.
Kevin: Pros, whatever.
Kevin: I just retweet other more funny, interesting things than what I have to say.
Kevin: But um, yeah.
Kevin: More importantly than me, though.
Kevin: Let's find this podcast that you're listening to, find it again at THS Pod, on Tumblr and Blue Sky, if you want to see posts and news and links and things, or go to harvestseason.club, our bona fide website made by software.
Kevin: I don't know, sexual engineer, whatever.
Kevin: He is a programmer coding man, Al, the host with the most, um, with all the links to everything you need and feedback forms.
Kevin: Submit your questions and comments.
Kevin: Um, or if you want the the, the royal experience, go down to patreon.com slash THS pod.
Kevin: Uh, where we, uh, to have, uh, bonus content like the greenhouse episode.
Kevin: Uh, true to the name greenhouse, they are often evergreen.
Kevin: Just random topics that you can listen to at any time.
Kevin: They're not used dependent or game dependent.
Kevin: So, go check it out.
Kevin: We do all sorts of stupid stuff on there.
Kevin: We are still need to get uh, together to do our episode for uh, the, the, uh, series review on on Bluey, which many of us are fans of.
Liam: On Bluey.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Al has kids, so obviously he's into Bluey.
Liam: Amazing.
Kevin: I caught it at one and we got like one other Cody, one of our other coaches.
Kevin: big into Bluey.
Kevin: So we we've said it.
Kevin: We haven't done it, but we're like, we got to do Kulu yesterday at one point, just biggest tier jerkers, maybe just screams.
Liam: Nice.
Kevin: Um, yeah, we love Bluey.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: That's so funny.
Liam: That's good.
Liam: I'm glad to hear it.
Liam: Bluey deserves all the ups in the world.
Kevin: Oh, it's so good.
Kevin: Um, Anyways, yeah, that's again, that's on the Patreon.
Liam: Yeah.
Kevin: You also get access to our Slack where people can hang out and chat, all the hosts are there.
Kevin: Um, you get, uh, usually you'll sleep, little sneak peeks at the name episode, mostly in the form of threads of random images.
Kevin: Um, insider baseball.
Kevin: I'll post one such thread this for this week's episode, which I've not listened to, and it's just images of people planking.
Kevin: So I, I'm genuinely baffled by the context of this, but I, oh, that's their Patreon experience.
Kevin: Um, anyways, again, that is uh, patreon.com slash THS pod.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: And so with all that said, thank you again, Liam, for being on, thank you, Al, for editing and listening to all this nonsense.
Kevin: Um, and thank you again, and until next time, dear listener.
Kevin: Have a good harness.
Liam: Have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley, with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin, Stewart, and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Mike the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Kevin: There you go.
Kevin: You don't know the, I can't blame you at all.
Kevin: You know...
Liam: It's it's tougher.
Liam: It's tougher.
Kevin: Yeah.
Liam: It's tougher than it sounds.
Liam: And I, you're right.
Liam: You had a cadence that was different.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: We do.
Liam: You guys must do that all the time.
Liam: I'll try to get it.
Kevin: We do.
Liam: I'll try to get it next time.
Kevin: No, that's, yeah, yeah, we do.
Kevin: I should have prepped you.
Kevin: Um, fun, but no, no, absolute.
Liam: No, you're good, you're good.
Liam: It's better that way.
Kevin: I screwed up on purpose all the time.
Kevin: Um, and sometime, sometimes I'll play out with it.
Kevin: Um, I've gotten a few voice actors from some of the games.
Kevin: on here.
Kevin: Um, and so I'll have them do.
Kevin: I'll do I'll make
Kevin: I make them do the thing.
Kevin: do the voice and say the atro.
Kevin: That's fun.
Kevin: One time we did an episode on Balachro because it had Stardew DLC and it was good enough.
Kevin: We talk about the watcher.
Kevin: Um, and I did a whole, whole, uh, outro as the, the Joker from uh, Batman.
Liam: Mhm.
Kevin: I'm amateur, very bad voice actor, man.
Kevin: I'm not no, I'm not a voice actor.
Kevin: I like to make voices and I wish I could be a voice actor.
Kevin: I am sadly not the Kevin who plays Mario.
Kevin: I'm the Kevin who plays Mario by myself in my head.
Liam: Now, well, one day, one day you could be.
Kevin: One day.